1. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 2016 Jun 1;74(3):279-85. doi: 10.1684/abc.2016.1141.

Butyrylcholinesterase deficiency.

[Article in English]

Delacour H(1), Dedome E(1), Courcelle S(1), Hary B(1), Ceppa F(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital d'instruction des armées Bégin, Fédération de biologie clinique, 
Saint-Mandé, France.

Butyrylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.8; BChE) is a sister enzyme of 
acetylcholinesterase. Though BChE lacks obvious physiological functions, it is 
of toxicological and pharmacological importance in detoxifying or catabolising 
ester-containing drugs. Furthermore, individuals deficient in BChE appear 
asymptomatic, apart from a heightened sensitivity to the muscle relaxants 
suxamethonium and mivacurium, two BChE substrates used as myorelaxant. Although 
many acquired conditions may affect BChE activity, BChE deficiency is mainly due 
to mutations in the BCHE gene (OMIM 177400). Currently, more than 70 natural 
mutations have been documented in human BCHE. They have an adverse effect on 
BChE activity by affecting the catalytic functioning or the protein expression. 
However, the atypical variant (rs1799807) is the most frequently involved in 
prolonged apnea.

DOI: 10.1684/abc.2016.1141
PMID: 27237801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2017 May;31(5). doi: 10.1002/jbt.21886. Epub 2017 Feb 22.

Human butyrylcholinesterase efficacy against nerve agent exposure.

Reed BA(1), Sabourin CL(1), Lenz DE(2).

Author information:
(1)Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, OH, 43201-2693, USA.
(2)DEL Consulting, Columbus, OH, 43204, USA.

Acetylcholinesterase is vital for normal operation of many processes in the 
body. Following exposure to organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents, death can ensue 
without immediate medical intervention. Current therapies mitigate the 
cholinergic crisis caused by nerve agents but do not fully prevent long-term 
health concerns, for example, brain damage following seizures. Human 
butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) is a stoichiometric bioscavenger being 
investigated as an antidote for OP nerve agent poisoning. HuBChE sequesters OP 
nerve agent in the bloodstream preventing the nerve agent from reaching critical 
target organ systems. HuBChE was effective when used as both a pre-treatment and 
as a post-exposure therapy. HuBChE has potential for use in both military 
settings and to protect civilian first responders in situations where nerve 
agent usage is suspected. We reviewed various animal models studies evaluating 
the efficacy of HuBChE against nerve agent exposure, pursuant to its submission 
for approval under the FDA Animal Rule.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.21886
PMID: 28225154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2018 Jun;28(6):455-465. doi: 
10.1080/13543776.2018.1476494.

A patent review of butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors and reactivators 2010-2017.

Andrisano V(1), Naldi M(2), De Simone A(1), Bartolini M(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department for Life Quality Studies , Alma Mater Studiorum Università di 
Bologna , Rimini , Italy.
(2)b Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology , Alma Mater Studiorum Università 
di Bologna , Bologna , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) has obtained a renewed interest as 
therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease (AD), when changes in BuChE activity 
and expression along disease progression were highlighted as well as correlation 
between BuChE levels and cognitive function.
AREAS COVERED: During the last eight years, fourteen patents on BuChE inhibitors 
(BuChEI) have been submitted. Only three of them relate to BuChE selective 
inhibitors, while four of them focus on multitarget inhibitors which address 
different key pathological factors other than BuChE. Two patents report on 
non-selective acetylcholinesterase (AChE)/BuChE inhibitors, while four patents 
deal with natural compounds and their derivatives. One patent relates to 
antitoxic agents to treat exposure to ChEI pesticides and nerve agents.
EXPERT OPINION: Increasing evidence supports BuChE as a more beneficial target 
in moderate-to-severe forms of AD in comparison to the well-known AChE. However, 
hitting a single pathological target is likely not sufficient to halt the 
disease progression. Therefore, patented BuChE inhibitors with a multifunctional 
profile may open new therapeutic avenues, since the additional activities could 
reinforce the therapeutic effects. Unfortunately, in vivo studies are limited 
and key parameters, such as ADMET data, are missing. This lack of information 
makes difficult to forecast the development of patented BuChEIs into effective 
drug candidates.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2018.1476494
PMID: 29757691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Curr Med Chem. 2020;27(18):2994-3011. doi: 10.2174/0929867326666190130161202.

Diagnoses of Pathological States Based on Acetylcholinesterase and 
Butyrylcholinesterase.

Pohanka M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Military Health Sciences, University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, 
50001 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

Two cholinesterases exist: Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE). While AChE plays a crucial role in neurotransmissions, BChE has no 
specific function apart from the detoxification of some drugs and secondary 
metabolites from plants. Thus, both AChE and BChE can serve as biochemical 
markers of various pathologies. Poisoning by nerve agents like sarin, soman, 
tabun, VX, novichok and overdosing by drugs used in some neurodegenerative 
disorders like Alzheimer´s disease and myasthenia gravis, as well as poisoning 
by organophosphorus pesticides are relevant to this issue. But it appears that 
changes in these enzymes take place in other processes including oxidative 
stress, inflammation, some types of cancer and genetically conditioned diseases. 
In this review, the cholinesterases are introduced, the mechanism of inhibitors 
action is explained and the relations between the cholinesterases and 
pathologies are explained.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867326666190130161202
PMID: 30706778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Jan;171:113670. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113670. Epub 
2019 Oct 16.

Butyrylcholinesterase, a stereospecific in vivo bioscavenger against nerve agent 
intoxication.

Cerasoli DM(1), Armstrong SJ(1), Reeves TE(1), Hodgins SM(1), Kasten SA(1), 
Lee-Stubbs RB(1), Cadieux CL(1), Otto TC(2), Capacio BR(1), Lenz DE(1).

Author information:
(1)US Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 8350 Ricketts Point 
Road, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21010-5400, USA.
(2)US Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 8350 Ricketts Point 
Road, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21010-5400, USA. Electronic address: 
tamara.c.otto.civ@mail.mil.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (E.C. 3.1.1.8) purified from blood plasma has 
previously been shown to provide protection against up to five and a half times 
the median lethal dose of an organophosphorus nerve agent in several animal 
models. In this study the stoichiometric nature of the protection afforded by 
human butyrylcholinesterase against organophosphorus nerve agents was 
investigated in guinea pigs. Animals were administered human 
butyrylcholinesterase (26.15 mg/kg ≡ 308 nmol/kg) by the intravascular or 
intramuscular route. Animals were subsequently dosed with either soman or VX in 
accordance with a stage-wise adaptive dose design to estimate the modified 
median lethal dose in treated animals. Human butyrylcholinesterase (308 nmol/kg) 
increased the median lethal dose of soman from 154 nmol/kg to 770 nmol/kg. 
Comparing the molar ratio of agent molecules to enzyme active sites yielded a 
stoichiometric protective ratio of 2:1 for soman, likely related to the similar 
stereoselectivity the enzyme has compared to the toxic target, 
acetylcholinesterase. In contrast, human butyrylcholinesterase (308 nmol/kg) 
increased the median lethal dose of VX from 30 nmol/kg to 312 nmol/kg, resulting 
in a stoichiometric protective ratio of only 1:1, suggesting a lack of 
stereoselectivity for this agent.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113670
PMID: 31628910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2018 Aug 15;652:38-49. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2018.06.006. 
Epub 2018 Jun 15.

Characterization of butyrylcholinesterase from porcine milk.

Saxena A(1), Belinskaya T(2), Schopfer LM(3), Lockridge O(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 503 Robert 
Grant Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910-7500, USA. Electronic address: 
ashima.saxena.civ@mail.mil.
(2)Division of Biochemistry, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 503 Robert 
Grant Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910-7500, USA; Infectious Diseases Research 
Directorate, Naval Medical Research Center, 503 Robert Grant Avenue, Silver 
Spring, MD 20910-7500, USA. Electronic address: 
tatyana.belinskaya.ctr@med.navy.mil.
(3)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(4)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) is under development for use as a 
pretreatment antidote against nerve agent toxicity. Animals are used to evaluate 
the efficacy of HuBChE for protection against organophosphorus nerve agents. 
Pharmacokinetic studies of HuBChE in minipigs showed a mean residence time of 
267 h, similar to the half-life of HuBChE in humans, suggesting a high degree of 
similarity between BChE from 2 sources. Our aim was to compare the biochemical 
properties of PoBChE purified from porcine milk to HuBChE purified from human 
plasma. PoBChE hydrolyzed acetylthiocholine slightly faster than 
butyrylthiocholine, but was sensitive to BChE-specific inhibitors. PoBChE was 
50-fold less sensitive to inhibition by DFP than HuBChE and 5-fold slower to 
reactivate in the presence of 2-PAM. The amino acid sequence of PoBChE 
determined by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry was 91% identical 
to HuBChE. Monoclonal antibodies 11D8, mAb2, and 3E8 (HAH 002) recognized both 
PoBChE and HuBChE. Assembly of 4 identical subunits into tetramers occurred by 
noncovalent interaction with polyproline-rich peptides in PoBChE as well as in 
HuBChE, though the set of polyproline-rich peptides in milk-derived PoBChE was 
different from the set in plasma-derived HuBChE tetramers. It was concluded that 
the esterase isolated from porcine milk is PoBChE.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2018.06.006
PMCID: PMC6086383
PMID: 29908755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
competing financial interest.


7. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2010 Feb 15;494(2):107-20. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2009.12.005. 
Epub 2009 Dec 11.

Butyrylcholinesterase for protection from organophosphorus poisons: catalytic 
complexities and hysteretic behavior.

Masson P(1), Lockridge O.

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. pmasson@unmc.edu

Butyrylcholinesterase is a promiscuous enzyme that displays complex kinetic 
behavior. It is toxicologically important because it detoxifies organophosphorus 
poisons (OP) by making a covalent bond with the OP. The OP and the 
butyrylcholinesterase are both inactivated in the process. Inactivation of 
butyrylcholinesterase has no adverse effects. However, inactivation of 
acetylcholinesterase in nerve synapses can be lethal. OP-inhibited 
butyrylcholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase can be reactivated with oximes 
provided the OP has not aged. Strategies for preventing the toxicity of OP 
include (a) treatment with an OP scavenger, (b) reaction of non-aged enzyme with 
oximes, (c) reactivation of aged enzyme, (d) slowing down aging with peripheral 
site ligands, and (e) design of mutants that rapidly hydrolyze OP. Option (a) 
has progressed through phase I clinical trials with human butyrylcholinesterase. 
Option (b) is in routine clinical use. The others are at the basic research 
level. Butyrylcholinesterase displays complex kinetic behavior including 
activation by positively charged esters, ability to hydrolyze amides, and a lag 
time (hysteresis) preceding hydrolysis of benzoylcholine and N-methylindoxyl 
acetate. Mass spectrometry has identified new OP binding motifs on tyrosine and 
lysine in proteins that have no active site serine. It is proposed, but not yet 
proven, that low dose exposure involves OP modification of proteins that have no 
active site serine.

2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2009.12.005
PMCID: PMC2819560
PMID: 20004171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2013;114(12):726-34. doi: 10.4149/bll_2013_153.

Butyrylcholinesterase as a biochemical marker.

Pohanka M.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an enzyme expressed in multiple organs and 
abundant in plasma. BChE can fluctuate in course of several reasons while both 
hypercholiensterasemia and hypocholinesterasemia are known. Considering evidence 
of BChE activity alterations, hepatocellular carcinoma, chronic liver diseases 
and poisoning with carbamates or organophosphates can be diagnosed by activity 
assay. BChE is responsible for detoxification reactions, and the compounds such 
as cocaine, succinylcholine, and acetylsalicylic acid are degraded in the body. 
The detoxification can be slowed in patients carrying the K variant of the 
enzyme. Summarization of literature, discussion on the meaning of BChE in the 
body, and the principles of BChE assay in samples are described in the review 
(Tab. 2, Fig. 8, Ref. 86). Text in PDF www.elis.sk.

DOI: 10.4149/bll_2013_153
PMID: 24329513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Jul 1;307:154-157. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.007. Epub 
2019 May 6.

Haplotypes of butyrylcholinesterase K-variant and their influence on the enzyme 
activity.

Jasiecki J(1), Żuk M(2), Krawczyńska N(3), Jońca J(4), Szczoczarz A(4), 
Lewandowski K(5), Waleron K(4), Wasąg B(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy with Subfaculty of Laboratory Medicine, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland. Electronic address: 
jjasiecki@gumed.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Biology and Medical Genetics, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland; Laboratory of Clinical Genetics, University Clinical Centre, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)Department of Biology and Medical Genetics, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy with Subfaculty of Laboratory Medicine, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, 
Poland.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is a serine hydrolase widely distributed throughout 
the body. It provides protection against administrated or inhaled poisons by 
hydrolyzing or sequestering the toxic compounds. The most frequent genetic 
variant of BCHE gene - K variant (p.A539T) is located in the C-terminal 
tetramerization domain, outside of the catalytic center. Many studies tried to 
reveal the nature of the lower activity of BChE K-variant but results and 
conclusions were often contradictory. The aim of this study is to estimate K 
allele frequency and its coexisting alterations in BCHE gene in a population of 
162 individuals, as well as, assess influence on the enzyme activity in serum. 
We present three haplotypes of BChE-K variant, two of them coexist in strong 
linkage disequilibrium with alterations in 5'UTR (rs1126680), intron 2 
(rs55781031) or in exon 2 (rs1799807). We demonstrate a negative role of these 
alterations on enzyme activity. By oneself BCHE-K (with no other alterations in 
BCHE gene) haplotype exhibits wild type enzyme activity. Based on our previous 
and presented results we conclude that SNPs localized outside the coding 
sequence, in 5'UTR or/and in intron 2 of BCHE gene, but not solely in K-variant 
alteration (p.A539T) itself, are responsible for reduced enzyme activity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.007
PMID: 31071335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 1;308:350-356. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.06.005. Epub 
2019 Jun 4.

The mechanism and benefit of human butyrylcholinesterase activation by what 
would otherwise be inhibitors.

Stojan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 
Vrazov trg 2, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: 
stojan@mf.uni-lj.si.

Activation of human butyrylcholinesterase by small quaternary ammonium ions is 
known. Here, additional ligands in this series are presented: edrophonium and 
choline, and the reactivator pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride. Kinetic analysis 
of the progress curves with these compounds indicates the mechanism of enhanced 
deacylation by the ligand bound to the catalytic anionic site (Trp82) at the 
base of the active site. The larger, bis-quaternary ligands examined, as 
propidium, hexamethonium, decamethonium, and bis-thiocholine, show only 
competitive inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase, by preventing substrate 
approach. This hypothesis of enhanced deacylation was tested for reactivation of 
methanesulfonylfluoride-inactivated butyrylcholinesterase, a complex analogous 
to organophosphate-aged cholinesterases. The combination of substrate/products 
and pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride improved butyrylcholinesterase activity 
over 2 h of continuous measurements, before which time substrate depletion 
prevailed. Similar reactivation of Torpedo californica acetylcholinesterase was 
unsuccessful, but both of these cholinesterases regain some activity if they 
have been inhibited and aged for days by diisopropylfluorophosphate.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.06.005
PMID: 31173753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Jul 1;307:16-20. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.04.020. Epub 
2019 Apr 18.

Butyrylcholinesterase inhibited by nerve agents is efficiently reactivated with 
chlorinated pyridinium oximes.

Zorbaz T(1), Malinak D(2), Kuca K(3), Musilek K(4), Kovarik Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, Ksaverska cesta 2, 
HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho 62, 50003 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; University Hospital in 
Hradec Kralove, Biomedical Research Center, Sokolska 581, 50005 Hradec Kralove, 
Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho 62, 50003 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho 62, 50003 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; University Hospital in 
Hradec Kralove, Biomedical Research Center, Sokolska 581, 50005 Hradec Kralove, 
Czech Republic. Electronic address: kamil.musilek@gmail.com.
(5)Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, Ksaverska cesta 2, 
HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia. Electronic address: zkovarik@imi.hr.

Bispyridinium oximes with one (K865, K866, K867) or two (K868, K869, K870) 
ortho-positioned chlorine moiety, analogous to previously known K027, K048 and 
K203 oximes, and potent reactivators of human acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
inhibited by nerve agents, were tested in the reactivation of human 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibited by sarin, cyclosarin, VX, and tabun. A 
previously highlighted AChE reactivator, dichlorinated bispyridinium oxime with 
propyl linker (K868), was tested in more detail for reactivation of four nerve 
agent-BChE conjugates. Its BChE reactivation potency was showed to be promising 
when compared to the standard oximes used in medical practice, asoxime (HI-6) 
and pralidoxime (2-PAM), especially in case of sarin and tabun. This finding 
could be used in the pseudo-catalytic scavenging of the most nerve agents due to 
its cumulative capacity to reactivate both AChE and BChE.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.04.020
PMID: 31004594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Chem Biol Interact. 2017 Mar 25;266:17-27. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2017.02.004. Epub 
2017 Feb 8.

Characterization of butyrylcholinesterase in bovine serum.

Dafferner AJ(1), Lushchekina S(2), Masson P(3), Xiao G(4), Schopfer LM(5), 
Lockridge O(6).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: adafferner@unmc.edu.
(2)Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics of Russian Academy of Sciences, 4, 
Kosygina St., Moscow 119334, Russia. Electronic address: 
sofya.lushchekina@gmail.com.
(3)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: pmasson@unmc.edu.
(4)Syd Labs, Inc., Natick, MA 01760, USA. Electronic address: 
gpxiao@sydlabs.com.
(5)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(6)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, 
USA. Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) protects from nerve agent toxicity. Our 
goal was to determine whether bovine serum could be used as a source of BChE. 
Bovine BChE (BoBChE) was immunopurified from 100 mL fetal bovine serum (FBS) or 
380 mL adult bovine serum by binding to immobilized monoclonal mAb2. Bound 
proteins were digested with trypsin and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem 
mass spectrometry. The results proved that FBS and adult bovine serum contain 
BoBChE. The concentration of BoBChE was estimated to be 0.04 μg/mL in FBS, and 
0.03 μg/mL in adult bovine serum, values lower than the 4 μg/mL BChE in human 
serum. Nondenaturing gel electrophoresis showed that monoclonal mAb2 bound 
BoBChE but not bovine acetylcholinesterase (BoAChE) and confirmed that FBS 
contains BoBChE and BoAChE. Recombinant bovine BChE (rBoBChE) expressed in 
serum-free culture medium spontaneously reactivated from inhibition by 
chlorpyrifos oxon at a rate of 0.0023 min-1 (t1/2 = 301 min-1) and aged at a 
rate of 0.0138 min-1 (t1/2 = 50 min-1). Both BoBChE and HuBChE have 574 amino 
acids per subunit and 90% sequence identity. However, the apparent size of serum 
BoBChE and rBoBChE tetramers was much greater than the 340,000 Da of HuBChE 
tetramers. Whereas HuBChE tetramers include short polyproline rich peptides 
derived from lamellipodin, no polyproline peptides have been identified in 
BoBChE. We hypothesize that BoBChE tetramers use a large polyproline-rich 
protein to organize subunits into a tetramer and that the low concentration of 
BoBChE in serum is explained by limited quantities of an unidentified 
polyproline-rich protein.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2017.02.004
PMCID: PMC5383351
PMID: 28189703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement The authors have 
no competing interests.


13. Neurochem Int. 2012 Oct;61(5):783-97. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2012.06.016. Epub 
2012 Jun 28.

Why has butyrylcholinesterase been retained? Structural and functional 
diversification in a duplicated gene.

Johnson G(1), Moore SW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Surgery, Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch 
University, P.O. Box 19063, Tygerberg 7505, South Africa. gjo@sun.ac.za

While acetylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7) has a clearly defined role in 
neurotransmission, the functions of its sister enzyme butyrylcholinesterase (EC 
3.1.1.8) are more obscure. Numerous mutations, many inactivating, are observed 
in the human butyrylcholinesterase gene, and the butyrylcholinesterase knockout 
mouse has an essentially normal phenotype, suggesting that the enzyme may be 
redundant. Yet the gene has survived for many millions of years since the 
duplication of an ancestral acetylcholinesterase early in vertebrate evolution. 
In this paper, we ask the questions: why has butyrylcholinesterase been 
retained, and why are inactivating mutations apparently tolerated? 
Butyrylcholinesterase has diverged both structurally and in terms of tissue and 
cellular expression patterns from acetylcholinesterase. 
Butyrylcholinesterase-like activity and enzymes have arisen a number of times in 
the animal kingdom, suggesting the usefulness of such enzymes. Analysis of the 
published literature suggests that butyrylcholinesterase has specific roles in 
detoxification as well as in neurotransmission, both in the brain, where it 
appears to control certain areas and functions, and in the neuromuscular 
junction, where its function appears to complement that of acetylcholinesterase. 
An analysis of the mutations in human butyrylcholinesterase and their relation 
to the enzyme's structure is shown. In conclusion, it appears that the structure 
of butyrylcholinesterase's catalytic apparatus is a compromise between the 
apparently conflicting selective demands of a more generalised detoxifier and 
the necessity for maintaining high catalytic efficiency. It is also possible 
that the tolerance of mutation in human butyrylcholinesterase is a consequence 
of the detoxification function. Butyrylcholinesterase appears to be a good 
example of a gene that has survived by subfunctionalisation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2012.06.016
PMID: 22750491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2018 Dec 1;1102-1103:109-115. 
doi: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.10.026. Epub 2018 Oct 25.

Purification of recombinant human butyrylcholinesterase on Hupresin®.

Lockridge O(1), David E(2), Schopfer LM(3), Masson P(4), Brazzolotto X(5), 
Nachon F(6).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA. 
Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.
(2)CHEMFORASE, Mont-Saint-Aignan, France. Electronic address: 
emilie.david@chemforase.com.
(3)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA. 
Electronic address: lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(4)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA; 
Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russia. 
Electronic address: pmasson@unmc.edu.
(5)Département de Toxicologie et Risques Chimiques, Institut de Recherche 
Biomédicale des Armés, Brétigny sur Orge, France. Electronic address: 
xavier.brazzolotto@chemdef.fr.
(6)Département de Toxicologie et Risques Chimiques, Institut de Recherche 
Biomédicale des Armés, Brétigny sur Orge, France. Electronic address: 
florian.nachon@chemdef.fr.

Affinity chromatography on procainamide-Sepharose has been an important step in 
the purification of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
since its introduction in 1978. The procainamide affinity gel has limitations. 
In the present report a new affinity gel called Hupresin® was evaluated for its 
ability to purify truncated, recombinant human butyrylcholinesterase (rHuBChE) 
expressed in a stably transfected Chinese Hamster Ovary cell line. We present a 
detailed example of the purification of rHuBChE secreted into 3940 mL of 
serum-free culture medium. The starting material contained 13,163 units of BChE 
activity (20.9 mg). rHuBChE was purified to homogeneity in a single step by 
passage over 82 mL of Hupresin® eluted with 0.1 M tetramethylammonium bromide in 
20 mM TrisCl pH 7.5. The fraction with the highest specific activity of 
630 units/mg contained 11 mg of BChE. Hupresin® is superior to 
procainamide-Sepharose for purification of BChE, but is not suitable for 
purifying native AChE because Hupresin® binds AChE so tightly that AChE is not 
released with buffers, but is desorbed with denaturing solvents such as 50% 
acetonitrile or 1% trifluoroacetic acid. Procainamide-Sepharose will continue to 
be useful for purification of AChE.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.10.026
PMCID: PMC6275104
PMID: 30384187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interest: Declarations of 
interest: none


15. Eur J Med Chem. 2017 May 26;132:294-309. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2017.03.062. Epub 
2017 Mar 27.

Recent progress in the identification of selective butyrylcholinesterase 
inhibitors for Alzheimer's disease.

Li Q(1), Yang H(1), Chen Y(2), Sun H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 
210009, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210023, 
China.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 
210009, China. Electronic address: sunhaopeng@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative 
disorders with notable factor of dysfunction in cholinergic system. Low ACh 
level can be observed in the pathogenesis of AD. Several AChE inhibitors have 
already been used for clinical treatments. However, other than normal 
conditions, ACh is mostly hydrolyzed by BuChE in progressed AD. Account for an 
increased level of BuChE and decreased level of AChE in the late stage of AD, 
development of selective BuChE inhibitor is of vital importance. Up till now, 
compounds with various scaffolds have been discovered to selectively inhibit 
BuChE. Different effective anti-BuChE molecules are concluded in this review.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2017.03.062
PMID: 28371641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nat Prod Res. 2021 Mar;35(5):750-756. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2019.1601091. Epub 
2019 May 22.

New biphenanthrenes with butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activitiy from 
Cremastra appendiculata.

Liu L(1)(2)(3)(4), Yin QM(1), Gao Q(1), Li J(5), Jiang Y(2), Tu PF(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Institute of Translational Medicine Yangzhou University, 
Yangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Natural and Biomimetic Drugs School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine 
for Prevention and Treatment of Senile Diseases, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 
China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Zoonosis, Jiangsu Co-innovation Center for 
Prevention and Control of Important Animal Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, 
College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.
(5)Modern Research Center for Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University 
of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.

Encouraged by the in vitro potent inhibitory activity on butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE) of 95% ethanol extract of Cremastra appendiculata (D. Don) Makino tubers, 
a further phytochemical investigation on C. appendiculata tubers was conducted, 
which led to the isolation of a pair of new biphenanthrene atropisomers, namely 
cremaphenanthrene F-G (1-2). Their structures were elucidated on the basis of 
extensive spectroscopic analyses and chemical method. It is the first time that 
biphenanthrene atropisomers have been isolated from the plant kingdom. Compound 
1 showed potent BChE inhibitory effect with IC50 value of 14.62 ± 2.15 μM. 
Compound 2 exhibited weak BChE inhibitory effect with IC50 value of 
79.56 ± 0.78 μM. Meanwhile, 1 and 2 were found to be inactive for 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition. These findings suggested that compound 1 
was a promising selective BChE inhibitor for AD prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2019.1601091
PMID: 31117825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Chem Biol Interact. 2016 Nov 25;259(Pt B):271-275. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbi.2016.02.013. Epub 2016 Feb 23.

Physiological roles for butyrylcholinesterase: A BChE-ghrelin axis.

Brimijoin S(1), Chen VP(2), Pang YP(3), Geng L(4), Gao Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: Brimijoin@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: Chen.vicky@mayo.edu.
(3)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: Pang@mayo.edu.
(4)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: Geng.liyi@mayo.edu.
(5)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: Gao.yang@mayo.edu.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) has long been regarded as an "orphan enzyme" with 
no specific physiological role other than to metabolize exogenous bioactive 
esters in the diet or in medicines. Human beings with genetic mutations that 
eliminate all BChE activity appear completely normal, and BChE-knockout mice 
have been described as "lacking a phenotype" except for faster weight gain on 
high-fat diets. However, our recent studies with viral gene transfer of BChE in 
mice reveal that BChE hydrolyzes the so-called "hunger hormone," ghrelin, at a 
rate which strongly affects the circulating levels of this peptide hormone. This 
action has important consequences for weight gain and fat metabolism. 
Surprisingly, it also impacts emotional behaviors such as aggression. 
Overexpression of BChE leads to low ghrelin levels in the blood stream and 
reduces aggression and social stress in mice. Under certain circumstances these 
combined effects contribute to increased life-span in group-housed animals. 
These findings may generalize to humans, as recent clinical studies by multiple 
investigators indicate that, among patients with severe cardiovascular disease, 
longevity correlates with increasing levels of plasma BChE activity.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2016.02.013
PMCID: PMC4995144
PMID: 26915976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Jun 1;306:138-146. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.04.019. Epub 
2019 Apr 19.

Computer-designed active human butyrylcholinesterase double mutant with a new 
catalytic triad.

Grigorenko BL(1), Novichkova DA(2), Lushchekina SV(3), Zueva IV(4), Schopfer 
LM(5), Nemukhin AV(1), Varfolomeev SD(1), Lockridge O(5), Masson P(6).

Author information:
(1)N.M. Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics of Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Kosygina Str. 4, Moscow 119334, Russia; Lomonosov State University, Chemistry 
Department, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(2)N.M. Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics of Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Kosygina Str. 4, Moscow 119334, Russia.
(3)N.M. Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics of Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Kosygina Str. 4, Moscow 119334, Russia. Electronic address: 
sofya.lushchekina@gmail.com.
(4)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry, FRC Kazan Scientific 
Center of RAS, Arbuzov Str. 8, Kazan, 420088, Russia; Kazan Federal University, 
Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kremlevskaya Str, 18, Kazan, 420008, Russia.
(5)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, 
USA.
(6)Kazan Federal University, Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kremlevskaya Str, 18, 
Kazan, 420008, Russia. Electronic address: pym.masson@free.fr.

A computer-designed mutant of human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), N322E/E325G, 
with a novel catalytic triad was made. The catalytic triad of the wild-type 
enzyme (S198·H438·E325) was replaced by S198·H438·N322E in silico. Molecular 
dynamics for 1.5 μs and Markov state model analysis showed that the new 
catalytic triad should be operative in the mutant enzyme, suggesting 
functionality. QM/MM modeling performed for the reaction of wild-type BChE and 
double mutant with echothiophate showed high reactivity of the mutant towards 
the organophosphate. A truncated monomeric (L530 stop) double mutant was 
expressed in Expi293 cells. Non-purified transfected cell culture medium was 
analyzed. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under native conditions followed by 
activity staining with BTC as the substrate provided evidence that the monomeric 
BChE mutant was active. Inhibition of the double mutant by echothiophate 
followed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and activity staining showed that 
this enzyme slowly self-reactivated. However, because Expi293 cells secrete an 
endogenous BChE tetramer and several organophosphate-reacting enzymes, catalytic 
parameters and self-reactivation constants after phosphorylation of the new 
mutant were not determined in the crude cell culture medium. The study shows 
that the computer-designed double mutant (N322E/E325G) with a new catalytic 
triad (S198·H438·N322E) is a suitable template for design of novel active human 
BChE mutants that display an organophosphate hydrolase activity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.04.019
PMID: 31009643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Molecules. 2019 Mar 7;24(5):948. doi: 10.3390/molecules24050948.

Triterpene-Based Carboxamides Act as Good Inhibitors of Butyrylcholinesterase.

Loesche A(1), Kahnt M(2), Serbian I(3), Brandt W(4), Csuk R(5).

Author information:
(1)Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Organic Chemistry, 
Kurt-Mothes-Str. 2, D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. 
anne.loesche@chemie.uni-halle.de.
(2)Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Organic Chemistry, 
Kurt-Mothes-Str. 2, D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. 
michael.kahnt@chemie.uni-halle.de.
(3)Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Organic Chemistry, 
Kurt-Mothes-Str. 2, D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. 
immo.serbian@chemie.uni-halle.de.
(4)Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry, Bioorganic Chemistry, Weinberg 3, 
D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. wbrandt@ipb-halle.de.
(5)Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Organic Chemistry, 
Kurt-Mothes-Str. 2, D-06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. 
rene.csuk@chemie.uni-halle.de.

A set of overall 40 carboxamides was prepared from five different natural 
occurring triterpenoids including oleanolic, ursolic, maslinic, betulinic, and 
platanic acid. All of which were derived from ethylene diamine holding an 
additional substituent connected to the ethylene diamine group. These 
derivatives were evaluated regarding their inhibitory activity of the enzymes 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) employing Ellman's 
assay. We further determined the type of inhibition and inhibition constants. 
Carboxamides derived from platanic acid have been shown to be potent and 
selective BChE inhibitors. Especially the mixed-type inhibitor 
(3β)-N-(2-pyrrolidin-1-ylethyl)-3-acetyloxy-20-oxo-30-norlupan-28-amide (35) 
showed a remarkably low Ki of 0.07 ± 0.01 µM (Ki' = 2.38 ± 0.48 µM) for the 
inhibition of BChE.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24050948
PMCID: PMC6429507
PMID: 30866589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


20. Chem Biodivers. 2019 May;16(5):e1900017. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201900017. Epub 2019 
Apr 10.

Profiling Auspicious Butyrylcholinesterase Inhibitory Activity of Two Herbal 
Molecules: Hyperforin and Hyuganin C.

Orhan IE(1), Senol Deniz FS(1), Traedal-Henden S(2), Cerón-Carrasco JP(3), den 
Haan H(3), Peña-García J(3), Pérez-Sánchez H(3), Emerce E(4), Skalicka-Wozniak 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 06330, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(2)IT-Department, UiT - the, Arctic University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway.
(3)Bioinformatics and High Performance Computing Research Group, Universidad 
Católica San Antonio de Murcia (UCAM), 30107, Guadalupe, Spain.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi 
University, 06330, Ankara, Turkey.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy with Medicinal Plant Unit, Medical University of 
Lublin, 20-093, Lublin, Poland.

Cholinergic therapy based on cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitory drugs is the 
mainstay for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, an extensive 
research has been continuing for the discovery of drug candidates as inhibitors 
of acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase. In this study, two natural molecules, 
e. g. hyperforin and hyuganin C were tested in vitro for their AChE and BChE 
inhibitory activity. Both of the compounds were ineffective against AChE, 
whereas hyperforin (IC50 =141.60±3.39 μm) and hyuganin C (IC50 =38.86±1.69 μm) 
were found to be the highly active inhibitors of BChE as compared to galantamine 
(IC50 =46.58±0.91 μm) which was used as the reference. Then, these molecules 
were further proceeded to molecular docking experiments in order to establish 
their interactions at the active site of BChE. The molecular docking results 
indicated that both of them are able to block the access to key residues in the 
catalytic triad of the enzyme, while they complement some of the hydrophobic 
residues of the cavity, what is consistent with our in vitro data. While both 
compounds were predicted as mutagenic, only hyuganin C showed hepatotoxicity in 
in silico analysis. According to whole outcomes that we obtained, particularly 
hyuganin C besides hyperforin are the promising BChE inhibitors, which can be 
the promising compounds for AD therapy.

© 2019 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201900017
PMID: 30891904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Biochim Biophys Acta Proteins Proteom. 2019 Feb;1867(2):107-113. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2018.11.001. Epub 2018 Nov 7.

Structural stability of human butyrylcholinesterase under high hydrostatic 
pressure.

Kangur L(1), Timpmann K(1), Zeller D(2), Masson P(3), Peters J(2), Freiberg 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physics, University of Tartu, W. Ostwald Str. 1, Tartu 51011, 
Estonia.
(2)Université Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, LiPhy, Grenoble 38000, France; Institut Laue 
Langevin, 71 avenue des Martyrs, Grenoble Cedex 38042, France.
(3)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russia.
(4)Institute of Physics, University of Tartu, W. Ostwald Str. 1, Tartu 51011, 
Estonia; Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Tartu, Riia 23, 
Tartu 51014, Estonia. Electronic address: arvi.freiberg@ut.ee.

Human butyrylcholinesterase is a nonspecific enzyme of clinical, pharmacological 
and toxicological significance. Although the enzyme is relatively stable, its 
activity is affected by numerous factors, including pressure. In this work, 
hydrostatic pressure dependence of the intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence in 
native and salted human butyrylcholinesterase was studied up to the maximum 
pressure at ambient temperature of about 1200 MPa. A correlated large shift 
toward long wavelengths and broadening observed at pressures between 200 and 
700 MPa was interpreted as due to high pressure-induced denaturation of the 
protein, leading to an enhanced exposure of tryptophan residues into polar 
solvent environment. This transient process in native butyrylcholinesterase 
presumably involves conformational changes of the enzyme at both tertiary and 
secondary structure levels. Pressure-induced mixing of emitting local indole 
electronic transitions with quenching charge transfer states likely describes 
the accompanying fluorescence quenching that reveals different course from 
spectral changes. All the pressure-induced changes turned irreversible after 
passing a mid-point pressure of about 400 ± 50 MPa. Addition of either 0.1 M 
ammonium sulphate (a kosmotropic salt) or 0.1 M lithium thiocyanate (a 
chaotropic salt) to native enzyme similarly destabilized its structure.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2018.11.001
PMID: 30414450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Molecules. 2019 Nov 20;24(23):4217. doi: 10.3390/molecules24234217.

Discovery of Selective Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) Inhibitors through a 
Combination of Computational Studies and Biological Evaluations.

Zhou Y(1), Lu X(2), Yang H(2), Chen Y(3), Wang F(1), Li J(1), Tang Z(4), Cheng 
X(1), Yang Y(4), Xu L(1), Xia Q(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology, 
Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.
(4)School of Life Science, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.

As there are increased levels and activity of butyrylcholiesterase (BChE) in the 
late stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD), development of selective BChE inhibitors 
is of vital importance. In this study, a workflow combining computational 
technologies and biological assays were implemented to identify selective BChE 
inhibitors with new chemical scaffolds. In particular, a pharmacophore model 
served as a 3D search query to screen three compound collections containing 3.0 
million compounds. Molecular docking and cluster analysis were performed to 
increase the efficiency and accuracy of virtual screening. Finally, 15 compounds 
were retained for biological investigation. Results revealed that compounds 8 
and 18 could potently and highly selectively inhibit BChE activities (IC50 
values < 10 μM on human BChE, selectivity index BChE > 30). These active 
compounds with novel scaffolds provided us with a good starting point to further 
design potent and selective BChE inhibitors, which may be beneficial for the 
treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24234217
PMCID: PMC6930573
PMID: 31757047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, and in 
the decision to publish the results.


23. Chem Commun (Camb). 2017 Apr 4;53(28):3952-3955. doi: 10.1039/c7cc00577f.

Discovery of a butyrylcholinesterase-specific probe via a structure-based design 
strategy.

Yang SH(1), Sun Q(1), Xiong H(1), Liu SY(1), Moosavi B(1), Yang WC(1), Yang 
GF(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education, 
College of Chemistry, Central China Normal University, Wuhan 430079, P. R. 
China. tomyang@mail.ccnu.edu.cn gfyang@mail.ccnu.edu.cn.
(2)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education, 
College of Chemistry, Central China Normal University, Wuhan 430079, P. R. 
China. tomyang@mail.ccnu.edu.cn gfyang@mail.ccnu.edu.cn and Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering, Tianjin 30071, P. R. 
China.

We report herein the structure-based design and application of a fluorogenic 
molecular probe (BChE-FP) specific to butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). This probe 
was rationally designed by mimicking the native substrate and optimized stepwise 
by manipulating the steric feature and the reactivity of the designed probe 
targeting the structural difference of the active pockets of BChE and AChE. The 
refined probe, BChE-FP, exhibits high specificity toward BChE compared to AChE, 
producing about 275-fold greater fluorescence enhancement upon the catalysis by 
BChE. Thus, BChE-FP is a specific BChE probe identified by the structure-based 
design and it can discriminate BChE from AChE. Furthermore, it has been 
successfully applied for imaging the endogenous BChE in living cells, as well as 
BChE inhibitor screening and characterization under physiological conditions.

DOI: 10.1039/c7cc00577f
PMID: 28322391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Med Primatol. 2018 Jun;47(3):185-191. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12342. Epub 2018 Mar 
24.

Molecular characterization and polymorphisms of butyrylcholinesterase in 
cynomolgus macaques.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(1), Mahadhi HMD(2), Ohura K(2), Hosokawa M(3), Imai T(2).

Author information:
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 
Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Biopharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Chiba Institute of Science, Choshi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), an enzyme essential for drug 
metabolism, has been investigated as antidotes against organophosphorus nerve 
agents, and the efficacy and safety have been studied in cynomolgus macaques. 
BChE polymorphisms partly account for variable BChE activities among individuals 
in humans, but have not been investigated in cynomolgus macaques.
METHODS: Molecular characterization was carried out by analyzing primary 
sequence, gene, tissue expression, and genetic variants.
RESULTS: In cynomolgus and human BChE, phylogenetically closely related, amino 
acid residues important for enzyme function were conserved, and gene and genomic 
structure were similar. Cynomolgus BChE mRNA was most abundantly expressed in 
liver among the 10 tissue types analyzed. Re-sequencing found 26 non-synonymous 
genetic variants in 121 cynomolgus and 23 rhesus macaques, indicating that 
macaque BChE is polymorphic, although none of these variants corresponded to the 
null or defective alleles of human BChE.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest molecular similarities of cynomolgus and 
human BChE.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12342
PMID: 29573432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Comp Med. 2018 Oct 1;68(5):367-374. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000047. Epub 2018 
Oct 2.

Identification of Carboxylesterase, Butyrylcholinesterase, Acetylcholinesterase, 
Paraoxonase, and Albumin Pseudoesterase in Guinea Pig Plasma through 
Nondenaturing Gel Electrophoresis.

Napon G(1), Dafferner AJ(2), Saxena A(3), Lockridge O(4).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, 
USA; University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
(2)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, 
USA.
(3)Division of Biochemistry, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, Maryland, USA; US Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army 
Institute of Research, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA.
(4)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, 
USA. olockrid@unmc.edu.

Drugs to protect against nerve agent toxicity are tested in animals. The current 
preferred small animal model is guinea pigs because their plasma bioscavenging 
capacity resembles that of NHP. We stained nondenaturing polyacrylamide slab 
gels with a variety of substrates, inhibitors, and antibodies to identify the 
esterases in heparinized guinea pig plasma. An intense band of carboxylesterase 
activity migrated behind albumin. Minor carboxylesterase bands were revealed 
after background activity from paraoxonase was inhibited by using EDTA. The 
major butyrylcholinesterase band was a disulfide-linked dimer. Incubation with 
the antihuman butyrylcholinesterase antibody B2 18-5 shifted the 
butyrylcholinesterase dimer band to slower migrating complexes. 
Carboxylesterases were distinguished from butyrylcholinesterase by their 
sensitivity to inhibition by bis-p-nitrophenyl phosphate. Acetylcholinesterase 
tetramers formed a complex with the antihuman acetylcholinesterase antibody HR2. 
Organophosphorus toxicants including cresyl saligenin phosphate, dichlorvos, and 
chlorpyrifos oxon irreversibly inhibited the serine esterases but not 
paraoxonase. Albumin pseudoesterase activity was seen in gels stained with α- or 
β-naphthyl acetate and fast blue RR. We conclude that guinea pig plasma has 2 
types of carboxylesterase, butyrylcholinesterase dimers and 5 minor 
butyrylcholinesterase forms, a small amount of acetylcholinesterase tetramers, 
paraoxonase, and albumin pseudoesterase activity. A knockout mouse with no 
carboxylesterase activity in plasma is available and may prove to be a better 
model for studies of nerve agent toxicology than guinea pigs.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000047
PMCID: PMC6200033
PMID: 30278860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Chem Res Toxicol. 2019 Sep 16;32(9):1801-1810. doi: 
10.1021/acs.chemrestox.9b00146. Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Engineering Dynamic Surface Peptide Networks on Butyrylcholinesterase(G117H) for 
Enhanced Organophosphosphorus Anticholinesterase Catalysis.

Hester KP(1), Bhattarai K(2), Jiang H(2), Agarwal PK(3)(4), Pope C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences , Oklahoma State University , Stillwater 
, Oklahoma 74078 , United States.
(2)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology , Oklahoma State University , 
Stillwater , Oklahoma 74078 , United States.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Cellular and Molecular Biology , University of 
Tennessee , Knoxville , Tennessee 37996 , United States.
(4)Arium BioLabs , 2519 Caspian Drive , Knoxville , Tennessee 37932 , United 
States.

The single residue mutation of butyrylcholinesterase (BChEG117H) hydrolyzes a 
number of organophosphosphorus (OP) anticholinesterases. Whereas other BChE 
active site/proximal mutations have been investigated, none are sufficiently 
active to be prophylactically useful. In a fundamentally different computer 
simulations driven strategy, we identified a surface peptide loop (residues 
278-285) exhibiting dynamic motions during catalysis and modified it via residue 
insertions. We evaluated these loop mutants using computer simulations, 
substrate kinetics, resistance to inhibition, and enzyme reactivation assays 
using both the choline ester and OP substrates. A slight but significant 
increase in reactivation was noted with paraoxon with one of the mutants, and 
changes in KM and catalytic efficiency were noted in others. Simulations 
suggested weaker interactions between OP versus choline substrates and the 
active site of all engineered versions of the enzyme. The results indicate that 
an improvement of OP anticholinesterase hydrolysis through surface loop 
engineering may be a more effective strategy in an enzyme with higher intrinsic 
OP compound hydrolase activity.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.9b00146
PMCID: PMC7251593
PMID: 31411024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Sep 1;310:108756. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.108756. Epub 
2019 Jul 17.

Dimerization of human butyrylcholinesterase expressed in bacterium for 
development of a thermally stable bioscavenger of organophosphorus compounds.

Cai Y(1), Zhou S(2), Stewart MJ(2), Zheng F(3), Zhan CG(4).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South 
Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA; West China School of Pharmacy, 
Sichuan University, No. 17 People's South Road, Chengdu, 610041, PR China.
(2)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South 
Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(3)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South 
Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. Electronic address: fzhen2@uky.edu.
(4)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South 
Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. Electronic address: zhan@uky.edu.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is a widely distributed plasma enzyme. For 
decades, numerous research efforts have been directed at engineering BChE as a 
bioscavenger of organophosphorus insecticides and chemical warfare nerve agents. 
However, it has been a grand challenge to cost-efficiently produce BChE in 
large-scale. Recently reported studies have successfully designed a truncated 
BChE mutant (with amino-acid substitutions on 47 residues that are far away from 
the catalytic site), denoted as BChE-M47 for convenience, which can be expressed 
in E. coli without loss of its catalytic activity. In this study, we aimed to 
dimerize the truncated BChE mutant protein expressed in a prokaryotic system (E. 
coli) in order to further improve its thermal stability by introducing a pair of 
cross-subunit disulfide bonds to the BChE-M47 structure. Specifically, the 
E377C/A516C mutations were designed and introduced to BChE-M47, and the obtained 
new protein entity, denoted as BChE-M48, with a pair of cross-subunit disulfide 
bonds indeed exists as a dimer with significantly improved thermostability and 
unaltered catalytic activity and reactivity compared to BChE-M47. These results 
provide a new strategy for optimizing protein stability for production in a 
cost-efficient prokaryotic system. Our enzyme, BChE-M48, has a half-life of 
almost one week at a 37°C, suggesting that it could be utilized as a highly 
stable bioscavenger of OP insecticides and chemical warfare nerve agents.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.108756
PMCID: PMC7756906
PMID: 31325422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Financial Interests statement: The 
authors declare that there is no conflict of interest for this work.


28. Anal Chem. 2019 Dec 17;91(24):15866-15872. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.9b04304. 
Epub 2019 Dec 6.

Gold Nanoclusters/Iron Oxyhydroxide Platform for Ultrasensitive Detection of 
Butyrylcholinesterase.

Zhang XP(1), Zhao CX(1), Shu Y(1), Wang JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences , Northeastern University , Box 
332, Shenyang 110819 , P. R. China.

The combination of gold nanoclusters (AuNCs) and nanomaterial-based quencher 
creates an innovative method for sensors design. In this work, we report a 
fluorescent sensing platform for sensitive detection of butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE). The fluorescence of AuNCs can be quenched by iron oxyhydroxide (FeOOH) 
nanomaterials. In the presence of BChE and acetylthiocholine (ATCh), nano-FeOOH 
can be effectively decomposed by the enzymatic hydrolysate (thiocholine), 
leading to the recovery of AuNCs fluorescence. The Au/FeOOH exhibits the highest 
fluorescence quenching efficiency compared with other transition metal 
oxyhydroxide-based sensing systems, e.g., Au/CoOOH and Au/NiOOH. The 
corresponding fluorescence recovery efficiency is also the best for Au/FeOOH. 
The large surface area of nanomaterials and thin nanostructure provide a 
favorable platform for the reaction of enzymatic hydrolysate and eventually 
improve the high sensitivity of the probe. A linear detection range for BChE is 
achieved within 5-100 ng mL-1 along with a detection limit of 4 ng mL-1. By 
taking advantage of the high sensitivity, the Au/FeOOH was successfully used for 
BChE quantification in 2 μL of finger blood.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.9b04304
PMID: 31756075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 1;308:101-109. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.024. Epub 
2019 May 15.

Structural aspects of 4-aminoquinolines as reversible inhibitors of human 
acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase.

Bosak A(1), Opsenica DM(2), Šinko G(3), Zlatar M(4), Kovarik Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, Ksaverska cesta 2, 
10000, Zagreb, Croatia. Electronic address: abosak@imi.hr.
(2)Institute of Chemistry, Technology and Metallurgy, University of Belgrade, 
Studentski trg 12-16, 11000, Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address: 
dopsen@chem.bg.ac.rs.
(3)Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, Ksaverska cesta 2, 
10000, Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Institute of Chemistry, Technology and Metallurgy, University of Belgrade, 
Studentski trg 12-16, 11000, Belgrade, Serbia.

Eight derivatives of 4-aminoquinolines differing in the substituents attached to 
the C(4)-amino group and C(7) were synthesised and tested as inhibitors of human 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Both enzymes were 
inhibited by all of the compounds with inhibition constants (Ki) ranging from 
0.50 to 50 μM exhibiting slight selectivity toward AChE over BChE. The most 
potent inhibitors of AChE were compounds with an n-octylamino chain or adamantyl 
group. The shortening of the chain length resulted in a decrease in AChE 
inhibition by 5-20 times. Docking studies revealed that the quinoline group 
within the AChE active site was positioned in the choline binding site, while 
the C(4)-amino group substituents, depending on their lipophilicity, could 
establish hydrogen bonds or π-interactions with residues of the peripheral 
anionic site. The most potent inhibitors of BChE were compounds with the most 
voluminous substituent on C(4)-amino group (adamantyl) or those with a stronger 
electron withdrawing substituent on C(7) (trifluormethyl group). Based on AChE 
inhibition, compounds with an n-octylamino chain or adamantyl substituent were 
shown to possess the capacity for further development as potential drugs for 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.024
PMID: 31100281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 1;308:170-178. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.021. Epub 
2019 May 24.

Human plasma-derived butyrylcholinesterase is behaviorally safe and effective in 
cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis) challenged with soman.

Myers TM(1).

Author information:
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, USA. 
Electronic address: todd.m.myers14.civ@mail.mil.

Organophosphorus compounds (OP) pose a significant threat. Administration of 
human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) may reduce or prevent OP toxicity. Thus, we 
evaluated the safety and efficacy of HuBChE in monkeys using sensitive 
neurobehavioral tests while concurrently characterizing absorption and 
elimination in the presence and absence of high-dose soman exposure to predict 
time course and degree of protection. Eight young adult male cynomolgus macaques 
were trained on two distinct automated tests of neurobehavioral functioning. 
HuBChE purified under current Good Manufacturing Practices (CGMP) was injected 
intramuscularly at 13.1 mg/kg, producing an average peak plasma value (Cmax) of 
over 27 Units/ml. The apparent time to maximum concentration (Tmax) approximated 
7 h, the elimination half-life approximated 102 h, and plasma levels returned to 
pre-administration (baseline) levels by 14 days. No behavioral disruptions 
following HuBChE administration were observed on either neurobehavioral test, 
even in monkeys injected 24 h later with an otherwise lethal dose of soman. 
Thus, HuBChE provided complete neurobehavioral protection from soman challenge. 
The present data replicate and extend previous results from our laboratory that 
had used a different route of administration (intravenous), a different species 
(rhesus macaque), and a different BChE product (non-CGMP material). The addition 
of two sensitive neurobehavioral tests coupled with the PK/PD results 
convincingly demonstrates the neurobehavioral safety of plasma-derived HuBChE at 
therapeutic levels. Protection against an otherwise-lethal dose of soman by a 
pre-exposure treatment dose that is devoid of side effects establishes a 
foundation for additional testing using other exposure routes and treatment 
times, other challenge agents/routes, or other classes of organophosphate 
scavengers.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.021
PMID: 31129133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Biomed Res Int. 2018 Apr 5;2018:9634349. doi: 10.1155/2018/9634349. eCollection 
2018.

Inhibition of Acetylcholinesterase and Butyrylcholinesterase by a Plant 
Secondary Metabolite Boldine.

Kostelnik A(1)(2), Pohanka M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemical Technology, University of Pardubice, 532 10 Pardubice, 
Czech Republic.
(2)Faculty of Military Health Sciences, University of Defence, 500 10 Hradec 
Kralove, Czech Republic.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) are two enzymes 
sensitive to various chemical compounds having ability to bind to crucial parts 
of these enzymes. Boldine is a natural alkaloid and it was mentioned in some 
older works that it can inhibit some kinds of AChE. We reinvestigated this 
effect on AChE and also on BChE using acetyl (butyryl) thiocholine and Ellman's 
reagents as standard substances for spectrophotometric assay. We found out IC50 
of AChE equal to 372 μmol/l and a similar level to BChE, 321 μmol/l. We conclude 
our experiment by a finding that boldine is cholinesterase inhibitor; however we 
report significantly weaker inhibition than that suggested in literature. 
Likewise, we tried to investigate the mechanism of inhibition and completed it 
with in silico study. Potential toxic effect on cholinesterases in real 
conditions is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/9634349
PMCID: PMC5907398
PMID: 29850593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Dec 1;314:108845. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.108845. Epub 
2019 Oct 5.

The kinetics of inhibition of human acetylcholinesterase and 
butyrylcholinesterase by methylene violet 3RAX.

Onder S(1), Biberoglu K(2), Tacal O(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy, Hacettepe University, Ankara, 
06100, Turkey. Electronic address: sedaonder@hacettepe.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy, Hacettepe University, Ankara, 
06100, Turkey. Electronic address: kevserb@hacettepe.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy, Hacettepe University, Ankara, 
06100, Turkey. Electronic address: tacal@hacettepe.edu.tr.

Phenazines, naturally produced by bacteria and archaeal Methanosarcina species 
are nitrogen-containing tricyclic molecules with antibiotic, antitumoral, and 
antiparasitic activities. Phenazines are used as electron acceptors-donors in 
wide range of fields including environmental biosensors. In this study, the 
inhibitory effects of a synthetic phenazine dye, methylene violet 3RAX (also 
known as diethyl safranine) on human erythrocyte AChE and human plasma BChE were 
tested and also its inhibitory mechanisms for both enzymes were studied in 
detail. Kinetic analyses showed that methylene violet 3RAX acts as a hyperbolic 
noncompetitive inhibitor of AChE with Ki value of 1.58 ± 0.36 μM; α = 1; 
β = 0.12 ± 0.0003. On the other hand, it caused linear competitive inhibition of 
BChE with Ki value of 0.51 ± 0.006 μM; α = ∞. In conclusion, methylene violet 
3RAX which is a highly effective inhibitor of both human AChE and human BChE 
with Ki values in low micromolar range may be a promising candidate for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.108845
PMID: 31593690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. ACS Sens. 2018 Oct 26;3(10):2118-2128. doi: 10.1021/acssensors.8b00697. Epub 
2018 Oct 7.

Discovery of Butyrylcholinesterase-Activated Near-Infrared Fluorogenic Probe for 
Live-Cell and In Vivo Imaging.

Liu SY(1), Xiong H(1), Yang JQ(1), Yang SH(1), Li Y(2), Yang WC(1), Yang 
GF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Pesticide & Chemical Biology of Ministry of Education, 
International Joint Research Center for Intelligent Biosensor Technology and 
Health, and Chemical Biology Center, College of Chemistry , Central China Normal 
University , Wuhan 430079 , P.R. China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences , McMaster University , 
1280 Main Street West , Hamilton , Ontario L8S 4K1 , Canada.
(3)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering , Tianjin 
30071 , P.R. China.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is widely distributed in various tissues and highly 
implicated in several important human diseases, especially Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). However, the role of BChE in AD is still controversial, which may be 
partially attributed to the lack of a direct tool for real-time and noninvasive 
monitoring of BChE in in vivo. Here, we report three rationally designed 
near-infrared fluorogenic probes that possess excellent discrimination for 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) over the related enzyme acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE). The refined probe, BChE-NIRFP, not only functions as an exquisite 
substrate for BChE in in vitro assays but also represents a superb "signal-on" 
imaging tool to real-time track BChE levels in human cells, zebrafish, and a 
mouse model of AD. A further application of BChE-NIRFP to identify the cellular 
mechanism reveals that Aβ fibrils and insulin resistance may be important 
contributors to the abnormally elevated BChE levels observed during AD 
progression. Based on the results from the present study, this new probe is a 
valuable tool for basic and clinical research designed to obtain a complete 
understanding of the physiological roles of BChE in diverse human diseases, 
particularly AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acssensors.8b00697
PMID: 30203965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 25;14(11):e0225188. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0225188. 
eCollection 2019.

Adeno-associated virus-mediated expression of human butyrylcholinesterase to 
treat organophosphate poisoning.

Gupta V(1), Cadieux CL(2), McMenamin D(1), Medina-Jaszek CA(1), Arif M(1), 
Ahonkhai O(1), Wielechowski E(1), Taheri M(1), Che Y(1), Goode T(1), Limberis 
MP(1), Li M(1)(3), Cerasoli DM(2), Tretiakova AP(1), Wilson JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Gene Therapy Program, Department of Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of 
America.
(2)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, Maryland, 
United States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of 
America.

Rare diseases defined by genetic mutations are classic targets for gene therapy. 
More recently, researchers expanded the use of gene therapy in non-clinical 
studies to infectious diseases through the delivery of vectorized antibodies to 
well-defined antigens. Here, we further extend the utility of gene therapy 
beyond the "accepted" indications to include organophosphate poisoning. There 
are no approved preventives for the multi-organ damage resulting from acute or 
chronic exposure to organophosphates. We show that a single intramuscular 
injection of adeno-associated virus vector produces peak expression (~0.5 mg/ml) 
of active human butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE) in mice serum within 3-4 weeks 
post-treatment. This expression is sustained for up to 140 days post-injection 
with no silencing. Sustained expression of hBChE provided dose-dependent 
protection against VX in male and female mice despite detectable antibodies to 
hBChE in some mice, thereby demonstrating that expression of hBChE in vivo in 
mouse muscle is an effective prophylactic against organophosphate poisoning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0225188
PMCID: PMC6876934
PMID: 31765413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.M. Wilson is a paid advisor to and holds 
equity in Scout Bio and Passage Bio; he holds equity in Surmount Bio; he also 
has a sponsored research agreement with Ultragenyx, Biogen, Janssen, Precision 
Biosciences, Moderna Therapeutics, Scout Bio, Passage Bio, Amicus Therapeutics, 
and Surmount Bio, which are licensees of Penn technology. JMW is an inventor on 
patents that have been licensed to various biopharmaceutical companies and for 
which he may receive payments. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


35. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 25;309:108712. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.06.025. Epub 
2019 Jun 12.

Aerosolized recombinant human butyrylcholinesterase delivered by a nebulizer 
provides long term protection against inhaled paraoxon in macaques.

Rosenberg Y(1), Fink J(2), MacLoughlin R(3), Ooms-Konecny T(4), Sullivan D(4), 
Gerk W(4), Mao L(5), Jiang X(5), Lees J(5), Urban L(5), Rajendran N(4).

Author information:
(1)PlantVax Inc, Rockville, MD, 20850, USA. Electronic address: 
yrosenther@aol.com.
(2)Department of Respiratory Care, Texas State University, Round Rock, TX, 
78665, USA.
(3)Aerogen, Galway, H91 HE94, Ireland.
(4)IIT Research Institute, Chicago, IL, 60616, USA.
(5)PlantVax Inc, Rockville, MD, 20850, USA.

The recent intentional use of nerve agents and pesticides in Europe and 
Afghanistan highlights the need for an effective countermeasure against 
organophosphates (OP) toxins. The most developed pretreatment candidate to date 
is plasma (native) human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE), which is limited in 
availability and because of its 1:1 stoichiometry with OPs, a large dose will 
present challenges when delivered parenterally both in terms of pharmacokinetics 
and manageability in the field. A tetrameric recombinant (r) form of human BChE 
produced in CHO-K1 cells with similar structure, in vivo stability and antidotal 
efficacy as the native form, has been developed to deliver rHuBChE as an aerosol 
(aer) to form a pulmonary bioshield capable of neutralizing inhaled OPs in situ 
and prevent AChE inhibition in the blood and in the brain; the latter associated 
with the symptoms of OP toxicity. Previous proof-of-concept macaque studies 
demonstrated that delivery of 9 mg/kg using a microsprayer inserted down the 
trachea, resulted in protection against an inhaled dose of 15ug/kg of 
aer-paraoxon (aer-Px) given 72 h later. In the present studies, pulmonary 
delivery of rHuBChE in macaques was achieved using Aerogen vibrating mesh 
nebulizers, similar to that used for human self-administration. The promising 
findings indicate that despite the poor lung deposition observed in macaques 
using nebulizers (13-20%), protective levels of RBC-AChE were still present in 
the blood even when exposure aer-Px (55 μg/kg) was delayed for five days. This 
long term retention of 5 mg/kg rHuBChE deposited in the lung bodes well for the 
use of an aer-rHuBChE pretreatment in humans where a user-friendly customized 
nebulizer with increased lung deposition up to 50% will provide even longer 
protection at a lower dose.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.06.025
PMCID: PMC6679726
PMID: 31201777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare 
that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships 
that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Conflict 
of interest statement The authors have no competing interests.


36. Chem Commun (Camb). 2019 Dec 18;55(97):14574-14577. doi: 10.1039/c9cc07737e. 
Epub 2019 Oct 30.

A fluorescent probe for butyrylcholinesterase activity in human serum based on a 
fluorophore with specific binding affinity for human serum albumin.

Yoo S(1), Han MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology (GIST), 
Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea. happyhan@gist.ac.kr.

Non-specific binding of a fluorescent probe to human serum albumin is 
problematic because it induces signal interference when the probe detects the 
target biomarker in human serum. To eliminate this problem, we used 
intrinsically problematic non-specific fluorescence in designing a fluorescent 
probe for butyrylcholinesterase activity in serum. The probe containing a 
fluorophore with specific binding affinity for albumin could sensitively detect 
butyrylcholinesterase activity in serum with high selectivity to 
acetylcholinesterase and screen the efficiency of butyrylcholinesterase 
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1039/c9cc07737e
PMID: 31663530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2009 May;5(5):523-8. doi: 
10.1517/17425250902915555.

The butyrylcholinesterase knockout mouse a research tool in the study of drug 
sensitivity, bio-distribution, obesity and Alzheimer's disease.

Duysen EG(1), Li B, Lockridge O.

Author information:
(1)Researcher Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198 6805, USA. eduysen@unmc.edu

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) mutations common in the human population may result 
in complete or partial BChE deficiency, making the BChE knockout (KO) mouse a 
model for human deficiencies. The BChE KO mouse cannot tolerate standard doses 
of the muscle relaxant succinylcholine or the Alzheimer's disease drugs 
huperzine A and donepezil. It is resistant to the asthma drug bambuterol. The 
importance of BChE in detoxication of cocaine has been demonstrated by 
hepatotoxicity and cardiotoxicity in cocaine-challenged BChE KO mice. The BChE 
KO mouse becomes obese on a high-fat diet, suggesting a role for BChE in fat 
metabolism. BChE serves as a backup for acetylcholinesterase by hydrolyzing the 
neurotransmitter acetylcholine in acetylcholinesterase knockout mice. Imaging 
studies show that BChE injected intrathecally crosses the blood-brain barrier. 
Mice, but not humans, have carboxylesterase in their blood. Carboxylesterase 
obscures the role of BChE in detoxication of organophosphorus pesticides. Future 
studies will make a double knockout that has neither BChE nor carboxylesterase. 
The double knockout is expected to be unusually sensitive to the toxicity of 
organophosphorus pesticides. Knowledge of drug sensitivities in the mouse model 
of human BChE deficiency will aid in understanding adverse drug effects in 
humans.

DOI: 10.1517/17425250902915555
PMID: 19416087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Bioorg Chem. 2018 Sep;79:301-309. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.05.012. Epub 2018 
May 17.

Oxidation at C-16 enhances butyrylcholinesterase inhibition in lupane 
triterpenoids.

Castro MJ(1), Richmond V(2), Faraoni MB(1), Murray AP(3).

Author information:
(1)INQUISUR-CONICET, Departamento de Química, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Av. 
Alem 1253, B8000CPB Bahía Blanca, Argentina.
(2)UMYMFOR (CONICET-UBA), Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Ciencias 
Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pabellón 
2, 1428 Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)INQUISUR-CONICET, Departamento de Química, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Av. 
Alem 1253, B8000CPB Bahía Blanca, Argentina. Electronic address: 
apmurray@uns.edu.ar.

A set of triterpenoids with different grades of oxidation in the lupane skeleton 
were prepared and evaluated as cholinesterase inhibitors. Allylic oxidation with 
selenium oxide and Jones's oxidation were employed to obtain mono-, di- and 
tri-oxolupanes, starting from calenduladiol (1) and lupeol (3). All the 
derivatives showed a selective inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase over 
acetylcholinesterase (BChE vs. AChE). A kinetic study proved that compounds 2 
and 9, the more potent inhibitors of the series, act as competitive inhibitors. 
Molecular modeling was used to understand their interaction with BChE, the role 
of carbonyl at C-16 and the selectivity towards this enzyme over AChE. These 
results indicate that oxidation at C-16 of the lupane skeleton is a key 
transformation in order to improve the cholinesterase inhibition of these 
compounds.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.05.012
PMID: 29793143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. PLoS One. 2019 Jan 9;14(1):e0209795. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0209795. 
eCollection 2019.

Purification of human butyrylcholinesterase from frozen Cohn fraction IV-4 by 
ion exchange and Hupresin affinity chromatography.

Schopfer LM(1), Lockridge O(1), David E(2), Hinrichs SH(3).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, 
United States of America.
(2)CHEMFORASE, Mont-Saint-Aignan, France.
(3)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical 
Center, Omaha, Nebraska, United States of America.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) is being developed as a therapeutic for 
protection from the toxicity of nerve agents. An enriched source of HuBChE is 
Cohn fraction IV-4 from pooled human plasma. For the past 40 years, purification 
of HuBChE has included affinity chromatography on procainamide-Sepharose. The 
present report supports a new affinity sorbent, Hupresin, for purification of 
HuBChE from Cohn fraction IV-4. Nine batches of 70-80 kg frozen Cohn fraction 
were extracted with water, filtered, and chromatographed on 30 L of Q-Ceramic 
ion exchange sorbent at pH 4.5. The 4% pure Q-eluent was pumped onto 4.2 L 
Hupresin, where contaminants were washed off with 0.3 M NaCl in 20 mM sodium 
phosphate pH 8.0, before 99% pure HuBChE was eluted with 0.1 M 
tetramethylammonium bromide. The average yield was 1.5 g of HuBChE from 80 kg 
Cohn paste. Recovery of HuBChE was reduced by 90% when the paste was stored at 
-20°C for 1 year, and reduced 100% when stored at 4°C for 24h. No reduction in 
HuBChE recovery occurred when paste was stored at -80°C for 3 months or 3 years. 
Hupresin and procainamide-Sepharose were equally effective at purifying HuBChE 
from Cohn fraction. HuBChE in Cohn fraction required 1000-fold purification to 
attain 99% purity, but 15,000-fold purification when the starting material was 
plasma. HuBChE (P06276) purified from Cohn fraction was a 340 kDa tetramer of 4 
identical N-glycated subunits, stable for years in solution or as a lyophilized 
product.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0209795
PMCID: PMC6326467
PMID: 30625168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Emilie David, President of CHEMFORASE, and the 
authors at the University of Nebraska Medical Center declare that the commercial 
affiliation with CHEMFORASE does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


40. J Mol Neurosci. 2019 Mar;67(3):445-455. doi: 10.1007/s12031-018-1251-7. Epub 
2019 Feb 1.

Biochemical Analysis and Association of Butyrylcholinesterase SNPs rs3495 and 
rs1803274 with Substance Abuse Disorder.

Munir S(1), Habib R(2), Awan S(1), Bibi N(1), Tanveer A(1), Batool S(1), 
Nurulain SM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Functional Proteomics and Genomics Lab, COMSATS 
University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Functional Proteomics and Genomics Lab, COMSATS 
University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan. rabiahabib@comsats.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Biosciences, Functional Proteomics and Genomics Lab, COMSATS 
University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan. syed.nurulain@comsats.edu.pk.

Addiction is a complex mental and behavioral disorder that changes the 
neurochemistry and physiology of the brain. Genetics also plays a significant 
role in the pathophysiology of addiction. Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), a 
cholinergic enzyme, has been implicated in the metabolism of various drugs, 
including cocaine, and an association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) of the butyrylcholinesterase gene (BCHE) and neuronal disorders has been 
reported. We report here the first investigation to be conducted on the status 
of BChE activity and the potential association of two BCHE gene SNPs, rs3495 
(c.*189G > A) and rs1803274 (c.1699G>A, p.Ala567Thr, K-variant), with addiction 
vulnerability in heroin, hashish and polydrug users. Seventy-five individuals 
with an addiction to heroin, hashish and/or polydrug use were recruited to this 
study. BChE levels in the plasma were determined by Ellman's principle. SNPs 
were genotyped by standard procedures, followed by Sanger sequencing. Plasma 
BChE levels were found to be significantly higher (p ≤ 0.05) in addicts (mean ± 
standard error of the mean 0.031 ± 0.004 μmol/L/min; 95% confidence interval 
[CI] 0.024-0.038) than in non-addicts (controls) (0.014 ± 0.001 μmol/L/min; 95% 
CI 0.012-0.017). Statistical significant differences were also observed between 
the addicted cohorts. A statistically significant association for both SNPs 
(rs3495 and rs1803274) was not observed in addicted subjects tested in the 
dominant, recessive and allele genetic models, but trends of variations of the 
rs3495 risk G allele were noted. The authors conclude that BChE plays 
significant roles in addiction pathophysiology as increased BChE activity in 
blood samples obtained from the cohorts with addiction was evident. Further 
studies in this direction may provide novel approaches for the treatment of 
addiction, but studies with a larger sample size and different ethnic groups are 
warranted for broader conclusions to be drawn.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-018-1251-7
PMID: 30707402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Med Sci Monit. 2007 Dec;13(12):RA214-21.

Acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase as possible markers of low-grade 
systemic inflammation.

Das UN(1).

Author information:
(1)UND Life Sciences, Shaker Heights, OH 44120, USA. undurti@hotmail.com

Plasma levels of C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, 
and lipid peroxides are high whereas those of endothelial nitric oxide are low 
in insulin resistance, obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, 
hyperlipidemias, metabolic syndrome X, and Alzheimer's disease suggesting that 
these diseases are characterized by low-grade systemic inflammation. Recent 
studies showed that the plasma and tissue activities of enzymes 
butyrylcholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase are elevated in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease, and diabetes mellitus, hypertension, insulin resistance, 
and hyperlipidemia. As a result of this increase in the activities of enzymes 
acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase, the plasma and tissue levels of 
acetylcholine (ACh) will be low. The "cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway" 
mediated by acetylcholine acts by inhibiting the production of tumor necrosis 
factor, interleukin-1, macrophage migration inhibitory factor, and high mobility 
group box-1 and suppresses the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B expression. 
ACh is a neurotransmitter and regulates the levels and activities of serotonin, 
dopamine and other neuropeptides and thus, modulates both immune response and 
neurotransmission. Hence, both acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase by 
inactivating acetylcholine may enhance inflammation. This suggests that 
increased plasma and tissue activities of acetylcholinesterase and 
butyrylcholinesterase seen in various clinical conditions could serve as a 
marker of low-grade systemic inflammation.

PMID: 18049445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Med Hypotheses. 2010 Dec;75(6):648-51. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.08.008. Epub 
2010 Aug 24.

Butyrylcholinesterase in metabolic syndrome.

Sridhar GR(1), Rao AA, Srinivas K, Nirmala G, Lakshmi G, Suryanarayna D, Rao PV, 
Kaladhar DG, Kumar SV, Devi TU, Nitesh T, Hanuman T.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine and Diabetes Centre, 15-12-15 Krishananagar, Visakhapatnam 530 002, 
India. sridharvizag@gmail.com

Butyrylcholinesterase may have a role in a number of metabolic functions and 
could affect the expression of insulin resistance syndrome. We present our 
integrated work using clinical, biochemical and bioinformatic approaches to 
delineate the possible function of this enzyme. Initially, we constructed a 
phylogenic tree with nucleotides and amino acid sequences and showed the 
existence of similar sequences in bacteria, plants and in other animals. We also 
demonstrated a possible pathogenic role for BChE in the common existence of 
insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's disease by in silico method 
and followed it up with a diabetic mouse study where cognition was slowed along 
with changes in BChE levels. In the next group of in silico studies, we employed 
THEMATICS method to identify the amino acids at the active site and later 
performed docking studies with drugs. THEMATICS predicted two clusters of 
ionisable amino acid residues that are in proximity: one with two residues and 
another with 11 showed perturbation in the THEMATICS curves. Using ISIS/Draw 
2.5SP4, ARGUSLAB 4.0.1 and HEX 5.1. software. 3-D ligands were docked with BChE 
motif (from PDB). We did not find any of the ligands studied with significant 
docking distance, indicating they did not have direct interaction with the 
active site. Subsequently we performed in silico studies to compare the 
secondary structure and domain of BChE. Protein-protein interaction showed the 
following intersections with BChE UBE21, CHAT, APOE, AATF, DF ALDH9A1, PDHX, 
PONI PSME3 and ATP6VOA2. The integrative physiological roles of proteins with 
poorly known functions can be approached by generating leads in silico, which 
can be studied in vivo, setting into movement an iterative process.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.08.008
PMID: 20797821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Molecules. 2020 Jan 25;25(3):533. doi: 10.3390/molecules25030533.

Chlorpyrifos Oxon-Induced Isopeptide Bond Formation in Human 
Butyrylcholinesterase.

Biberoglu K(1), Tacal O(1), Schopfer LM(2), Lockridge O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy, Hacettepe University, Ankara 
06230, Turkey.
(2)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 68198-5900 Omaha, 
NE, USA.

A newly recognized action of organophosphates (OP) is the ability to crosslink 
proteins through an isopeptide bond. The first step in the mechanism is covalent 
addition of the OP to the side chain of lysine. This activates OP-lysine for 
reaction with a nearby glutamic or aspartic acid to make a gamma glutamyl 
epsilon lysine bond. Crosslinked proteins are high molecular weight aggregates. 
Our goal was to identify the residues in the human butyrylcholinesterase 
(HuBChE) tetramer that were crosslinked following treatment with 1.5 mM 
chlorpyrifos oxon. High molecular weight bands were visualized on an SDS gel. 
Proteins in the gel bands were digested with trypsin, separated by liquid 
chromatography and analyzed in an Orbitrap mass spectrometer. MSMS files were 
searched for crosslinked peptides using the Batch-Tag program in Protein 
Prospector. MSMS spectra were manually evaluated for the presence of ions that 
supported the crosslinks. The crosslink between Lys544 in 
VLEMTGNIDEAEWEWK544AGFHR and Glu542 in VLEMTGNIDEAEWE542WK satisfied our 
criteria including that of spatial proximity. Distances between Lys544 and 
Glu542 were 7.4 and 9.5 Å, calculated from the cryo-EM (electron microscopy) 
structure of the HuBChE tetramer. Paraoxon ethyl, diazoxon, and dichlorvos had 
less pronounced effects as visualized on SDS gels. Our proof-of-principle study 
provides evidence that OP have the ability to crosslink proteins. If OP-induced 
protein crosslinking occurs in the brain, OP exposure could be responsible for 
some cases of neurodegenerative disease.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25030533
PMCID: PMC7037448
PMID: 31991818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


44. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2018 Nov;32(11):e22210. doi: 10.1002/jbt.22210. Epub 2018 
Aug 8.

Effects of aryl methanesulfonate derivatives on acetylcholinesterase and 
butyrylcholinesterase.

Zilbeyaz K(1), Stellenboom N(2), Guney M(1), Oztekin A(3), Senturk M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Art and Science, Agri Ibrahim Cecen 
University, Agri, Turkey.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Agri Ibrahim 
Cecen University, Agri, Turkey.
(3)Department of Medical Services and Techniques, Agri Ibrahim Cecen University 
Vocational School of Health Services, Agri, Turkey.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Agri Ibrahim Cecen 
University, Agri, Turkey.

There is a dire need for new treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Principal 
drugs have reached maturity, and the number of people affected by AD is growing 
at a rapid rate. After years of research and many clinical trials, only 
symptomatic treatments are available. An effective disease-modifying drug for AD 
needs to be discovered. The research presented in this paper aims to facilitate 
in the discovery of new potential targets that could help in the ongoing AD 
research. Aryl methanesulfonate derivatives were screened for their 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibitory 
activities. IC50 values between 0.660 and 3.397 µM against AChE and 0.885 and 
2.596 µM against BuChE were obtained.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.22210
PMID: 30088833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Enzyme Inhib Med Chem. 2020 Dec;35(1):498-505. doi: 
10.1080/14756366.2019.1710502.

Development of potent reversible selective inhibitors of butyrylcholinesterase 
as fluorescent probes.

Pajk S(1), Knez D(1), Košak U(1), Zorović M(2), Brazzolotto X(3), Coquelle N(4), 
Nachon F(3), Colletier JP(5), Živin M(2), Stojan J(6), Gobec S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Pathological Physiology, University of 
Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)Département de Toxicologie et Risques Chimiques, Institut de Recherche 
Biomédicale des Armées, Brétigny sur Orge, France.
(4)Institut Laue Langvein, Grenoble, France.
(5)CNRS, CEA, IBS, Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Biochemistry, University of Ljubljana, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Brain butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an attractive target for drugs designed 
for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its advanced stages. It also 
potentially represents a biomarker for progression of this disease. Based on the 
crystal structure of previously described highly potent, reversible, and 
selective BChE inhibitors, we have developed the fluorescent probes that are 
selective towards human BChE. The most promising probes also maintain their 
inhibition of BChE in the low nanomolar range with high selectivity over 
acetylcholinesterase. Kinetic studies of probes reveal a reversible mixed 
inhibition mechanism, with binding of these fluorescent probes to both the free 
and acylated enzyme. Probes show environment-sensitive emission, and 
additionally, one of them also shows significant enhancement of fluorescence 
intensity upon binding to the active site of BChE. Finally, the crystal 
structures of probes in complex with human BChE are reported, which offer an 
excellent base for further development of this library of compounds.

DOI: 10.1080/14756366.2019.1710502
PMCID: PMC6968640
PMID: 31914836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


46. Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Apr;148:34-46. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2014.11.011. Epub 
2014 Nov 20.

Review of human butyrylcholinesterase structure, function, genetic variants, 
history of use in the clinic, and potential therapeutic uses.

Lockridge O(1).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.

Phase I clinical trials have shown that pure human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) 
is safe when administered to humans. A potential therapeutic use of BChE is for 
prevention of nerve agent toxicity. A recombinant mutant of BChE that rapidly 
inactivates cocaine is being developed as a treatment to help recovering cocaine 
addicts avoid relapse into drug taking. These clinical applications rely on 
knowledge of the structure, stability, and properties of BChE, information that 
is reviewed here. Gene therapy with a vector that sustains expression for a year 
from a single injection is a promising method for delivering therapeutic 
quantities of BChE.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2014.11.011
PMID: 25448037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2020 May 1;30(9):127075. doi: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2020.127075. 
Epub 2020 Mar 2.

Discovery of 9-phenylacridinediones as highly selective butyrylcholinesterase 
inhibitors through structure-based virtual screening.

Joubert J(1), Kapp E(2).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of the Western Cape, 
Private Bag X17, Bellville 7535, South Africa. Electronic address: 
jjoubert@uwc.ac.za.
(2)Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of the Western Cape, 
Private Bag X17, Bellville 7535, South Africa.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) is considered a promising drug target as it plays 
an important role in the progression of late stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two 
compound libraries were selected and 64 124 amine containing moieties were 
screened using a hierarchical virtual screening protocol to discover new 
selective BuChE inhibitors. From these and subsequent docking experiments, 
9-phenylacridinedione (9-PAD) was identified as a promising scaffold for 
selective inhibition of BuChE. Selected top dock scored 9-PADs were assayed and 
compounds 3 and 6 exhibited potent and highly selective human BuChE inhibition 
(IC50: 98 nM and 142 nM, respectively). Both molecules were also predicted to 
show sufficient brain permeability, not have any substantial toxicities, 
especially hepatotoxicity, and no significant in vitro cytotoxicity against 
SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells at concentrations up to 100 µM. These findings 
indicate that 9-PAD is a promising lead structure for the development of agents 
able to treat late stage AD.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2020.127075
PMID: 32165042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


48. Protein Pept Lett. 2009;16(10):1215-24. doi: 10.2174/092986609789071207.

Structure, activities and biomedical applications of human 
butyrylcholinesterase.

Masson P(1), Carletti E, Nachon F.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherches du Service de Santé des Armées, Department of 
Toxicology, Enzymology Unit, BP 87, 38702 La Tronche cedex, France. 
pmasson@unmc.edu

Human butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) is a serine enzyme present in most organs 
and plasma. No clear physiological function has yet been assigned to BuChE, but 
it is a pharmacologically and toxicologically important enzyme that plays a role 
in degradation of numerous ester-containing drugs and poisonous esters. Thus, 
BuChE-based bioscavengers are an alternative for prophylaxis and treatments of 
intoxications by these compounds. Also, BuChE has been integrated in biosensors 
for detection of organophosphorus compounds and other cholinesterase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2174/092986609789071207
PMID: 19508180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Molecules. 2019 Aug 4;24(15):2833. doi: 10.3390/molecules24152833.

Synthesis and In Vitro Screening of Novel Heterocyclic β-d-Gluco- and 
β-d-Galactoconjugates as Butyrylcholinesterase Inhibitors.

Baumann K(1), Kordić L(1), Močibob M(1), Šinko G(2), Tomić S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Zagreb, HR-10001 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Biochemistry and Organic Analytical Chemistry Unit, Institute for Medical 
Research and Occupational Health, P.O. Box 291, HR-10001 Zagreb, Croatia. 
gsinko@imi.hr.

The development of selective butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitors may improve 
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease by increasing lower synaptic levels of the 
neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which is hydrolysed by acetylcholinesterase, as 
well as by overexpressed BChE. An increase in the synaptic levels of 
acetylcholine leads to normal cholinergic neurotransmission and improved 
cognitive functions. A series of 14 novel heterocyclic β-d-gluco- and 
β-d-galactoconjugates were designed and screened for inhibitory activity against 
BChE. In the kinetic studies, 4 out of 14 compounds showed an inhibitory effect 
towards BChE, with benzimidazolium and 1-benzylbenzimidazolium substituted 
β-d-gluco- and β-d-galacto-derivatives in a 10-50 micromolar range. The analysis 
performed by molecular modelling indicated key residues of the BChE active site, 
which contributed to a higher affinity toward the selected compounds. Sugar 
moiety in the inhibitor should enable better blood-brain barrier permeability, 
and thus increase bioavailability in the central nervous system of these 
compounds.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24152833
PMCID: PMC6695897
PMID: 31382668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


50. Talanta. 2019 May 15;197:374-382. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2019.01.059. Epub 2019 
Jan 16.

Mass spectrometry based proteomic approach for the screening of 
butyrylcholinesterase adduct formation with organophosphates.

Dubrovskii Y(1), Murashko E(2), Chuprina O(2), Beltyukov P(2), Radilov A(2), 
Solovyev N(3), Babakov V(2).

Author information:
(1)St. Petersburg State University, Institute of Chemistry, St. Petersburg, 
Russian Federation; Research Institute of Hygiene, Occupational Pathology and 
Human Ecology, Federal Medical Biological Agency, St. Petersburg, Russian 
Federation. Electronic address: y.dubrovsky@spbu.ru.
(2)Research Institute of Hygiene, Occupational Pathology and Human Ecology, 
Federal Medical Biological Agency, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation.
(3)St. Petersburg State University, Institute of Chemistry, St. Petersburg, 
Russian Federation.

Organophosphates' toxic effect causes covalent binding to serine-198 in the 
active site of human plasma butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) with loss of enzymatic 
function (covalent inhibition). Mass spectrometric detection of modified 
FGESAGAAS peptide at the active site is a powerful exposure biomarker tool. The 
aim of this study was to develop mass spectrometry-based method for BChE adduct 
formation screening, avoiding the use of standard peptides. Immunomagnetic 
separation of proteins from plasma was optimized. Commercially available 
anti-butyrylcholinesterase monoclonal antibodies, immobilized on magnetic beads, 
resulted in stable and reusable affinity sorbent. The method was tested on horse 
serum BChE and real human plasma from healthy donors, treated with Russian VX 
(VR). The BChE isolated from blood plasma was digested with pepsin and analyzed 
by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The method was 
evaluated by using synthetic peptides and by comparison to the enzymatic 
activity Ellman's assay. The minimum concentration of VR exposure, resulting in 
detectable VR-adduct, was 0.2 ng/mL, which corresponded to the relative BChE 
inhibition of less than 2%. Adduct formation assessment was performed via 
monitoring of decrease in non-modified peptide LC-MS/MS signal and increase in 
VR-modified peptide signal. The designed approach was tested in a pilot study 
with 5 blood samples from healthy volunteers. Mass spectrometry-based method for 
BChE adduct formation was found to be in agreement with Ellman's inhibition 
assay, so the method is applicable for direct BChE inhibition assessment.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2019.01.059
PMID: 30771950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Int J Obes (Lond). 2017 Sep;41(9):1413-1419. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2017.123. Epub 
2017 May 22.

Butyrylcholinesterase regulates central ghrelin signaling and has an impact on 
food intake and glucose homeostasis.

Chen VP(1), Gao Y(1), Geng L(1), Brimijoin S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ghrelin is the only orexigenic hormone known to stimulate food 
intake and promote obesity and insulin resistance. We recently showed that 
plasma ghrelin is controlled by butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), which has a strong 
impact on feeding and weight gain. BChE knockout (KO) mice are prone to obesity 
on high-fat diet, but hepatic BChE gene transfer rescues normal food intake and 
obesity resistance. However, these mice lack brain BChE and still develop 
hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, suggesting essential interactions 
between BChE and ghrelin within the brain.
METHODS: To test the hypothesis we used four experimental groups: (1) untreated 
wild-type mice, (2) BChE KO mice with LUC delivered by adeno-associated virus 
(AAV) in combined intravenous (i.v.) and intracerebral (i.c.) injections, (3) KO 
mice given AAV for mouse BChE (i.v. only) and (4) KO mice given the same vector 
both i.v. and i.c. All mice ate a 45% calorie high-fat diet from the age of 1 
month. Body weight, body composition, daily caloric intake and serum parameters 
were monitored throughout, and glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance tests 
were performed at intervals.
RESULTS: Circulating ghrelin levels dropped substantially in the KO mice after 
i.v. AAV-BChE delivery, which led to normal food intake and healthy body weight. 
BChE KO mice that received AAV-BChE through i.v. and i.c. combined treatments 
not only resisted weight gain on high-fat diet but also retained normal glucose 
and insulin tolerance.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate a central role for BChE in regulating both 
insulin and glucose homeostasis. BChE gene transfer could be a useful therapy 
for complications linked to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2017.123
PMCID: PMC5585042
PMID: 28529331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


52. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2019 Sep;128:26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2019.05.002. 
Epub 2019 May 6.

Tubes for detection of cholinesterase inhibitors-Unique effects of Neusilin on 
the stability of butyrylcholinesterase-impregnated carriers.

Zeman J(1), Vetchý D(2), Pavloková S(1), Franc A(1), Pitschmann V(3), Dominik 
M(1), Urbanová M(4), Šeděnková I(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Veterinary 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Veterinary 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
vetchy@email.cz.
(3)Oritest Ltd., Prague, Czech Republic; Faculty of Biomedical Engineering, 
Czech Technical University, Kladno, Czech Republic.
(4)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, 
Czech Republic.

Detection tubes are small devices for the colorimetric enzymatic detection of 
cholinesterase inhibitors such as sarin, soman, VX nerve agents and substances 
denoted as Novichok. These detectors contain carriers in the form of pellets 
with immobilized cholinesterase, substrate and detection reagent. Their 
advantages are portability, sensitivity and simplicity, enabling fast detection 
of such compounds from air and water in case of a terrorist attack or war. In 
general, maintaining the stability of an enzyme for a longer time is very 
problematic; therefore, its further enhancement is required for safety and 
financial reasons. In this study, the stability of our patented carriers in the 
form of pellets with immobilized butyrylcholinesterase containing an increasing 
amount of the unique sorbent Neusilin® US2 was evaluated. The samples containing 
Neusilin maintained the stability of the immobilized enzyme for a longer time 
even at higher temperature and humidity than the currently commercially used 
carrier without Neusilin, allowing improved detection of nerve agents.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2019.05.002
PMID: 31186107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Food Chem Toxicol. 2017 Nov;109(Pt 2):970-974. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2017.03.016. 
Epub 2017 Mar 9.

Pteryxin - A promising butyrylcholinesterase-inhibiting coumarin derivative from 
Mutellina purpurea.

Orhan IE(1), Senol FS(2), Shekfeh S(3), Skalicka-Wozniak K(4), Banoglu E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 06330 
Ankara, Turkey. Electronic address: iorhan@gazi.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 06330 
Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 
06330 Ankara, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy with Medicinal Plant Unit, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Lublin, 20-093 Lublin, Poland.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 
06330 Ankara, Turkey. Electronic address: banoglu@gazi.edu.tr.

Pteryxin is a dihydropyranocoumarin derivative found in Apiaceae family. In this 
study, pteryxin, which was previously isolated from the fruits of Mutellina 
purpurea, was investigated for its inhibitory potential against 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), which are the key 
enzymes in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The compound was tested 
in vitro using ELISA microplate reader at 100 μg/ml and found to cause 
9.30 ± 1.86% and 91.62 ± 1.53% inhibition against AChE and BChE, respectively. 
According to our results, pteryxin (IC50 = 12.96 ± 0.70 μg/ml) was found to be a 
more active inhibitor of BChE than galanthamine (IC50 = 22.16 ± 0.91 μg/ml; 
81.93± 2.52% of inhibition at 100 μg/ml). Further study on pteryxin using 
molecular docking experiments revealed different possible binding modes with 
both polar and hydrophobic interactions inside the binding pocket of BChE. Top 
docking solution points out to the formation of two hydrogen bonds with the 
catalytic residues S198 and H438 of BChE as well as a strong π - π stacking with 
W231. Therefore, pteryxin as a natural coumarin seems to be a strong BChE 
inhibitor, which could be considered as a lead compound to develop novel BChE 
inhibitors for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2017.03.016
PMID: 28286309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Int J Neurosci. 2017 Dec;127(12):1082-1086. doi: 10.1080/00207454.2017.1329203. 
Epub 2017 May 23.

Plasma butyrylcholinesterase activity: a possible biomarker for differential 
diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies?

Josviak ND(1), Batistela MS(1), Souza RKM(2), Wegner NR(1), Bono GF(1), Sulzbach 
CD(1), Simão-Silva DP(1), Piovezan MR(3), Souza RLR(1), Furtado-Alle L(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Genetics , Federal University of Parana , Curitiba , Brazil.
(2)b Ambulatory of Memory and Behavior Disorders , Neurology Institute of 
Curitiba , Curitiba , Brazil.
(3)c Department of Neurology , Clinical Hospital of the Federal University of 
Paraná , Curitiba , Brazil.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an enzyme encoded by BCHE gene, responsible for 
secondary hydrolysis of the acetylcholine. K and -116A BCHE variants were 
associated with decrease in plasma BChE activity, and their influence has been 
investigated in diseases with a cholinergic deficit such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In order to check the influence of 
BCHE genetic variants on enzymatic activity, all patients and controls were 
genotyped for K and -116A variants. We found lower plasma BChE activity in DLB 
patients compared to elderly controls and to AD independent of the presence of K 
or -116A variants. Our results suggest that the reduction of total plasma BChE 
activity is probably associated with a feedback mechanism and provides a future 
perspective of using this enzyme as a possible plasmatic marker for differential 
diagnosis between AD and DLB.

DOI: 10.1080/00207454.2017.1329203
PMID: 28504037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Sep 6;187(1-3):64-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.01.003. 
Epub 2010 Jan 11.

Alanine-to-threonine substitutions and amyloid diseases: butyrylcholinesterase 
as a case study.

Podoly E(1), Hanin G, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Givat 
Ram, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Alanine-to-threonine (A to T) substitutions caused by single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) occur in diverse proteins, and in certain cases these 
substitutions induce self-aggregation into amyloid fibrils or aggregation in 
other amyloidogenic proteins. This is compatible with the inverse preferences of 
alanine to form helices and of threonine to support beta-sheet structures, which 
are crucial for amyloid fibrils formation. Our interest in these mutations was 
initiated by studying the potential effects of the A539T substitution in the 
butyrylcholinesterase BChE-K variant on amyloid fibrils formation in Alzheimer's 
disease. Other examples are, Parkinson's disease (PD), where A53T 
alpha-synuclein occurs in Lewy bodies and familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP), 
where an A25T substitution appears in transthyretin (TTR). In peripheral organs, 
an A34T substitution is found in the light chain immunoglobulin genes of 
patients with systemic amyloidosis and in familial hypercholesterolemia, an 
A370T substitution occurs in the LDLR regulator of cholesterol homeostasis. That 
such substitutions appear in proteins with important cellular functions suggests 
that they confer antagonistic pleiotropy, providing added value at an earlier 
age but causing damages and inducing amyloid diseases later on. This, in turn, 
may explain the evolutionary selection and preservation of these substitutions. 
The structural effect of residue substitutions and in particular A to T 
substitutions in amyloidogenic diseases thus merits further attention.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.01.003
PMID: 20060816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Biol Macromol. 2019 Nov 1;140:1147-1157. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.08.168. Epub 2019 Aug 20.

In vitro and in silico analysis of novel astaxanthin-s-allyl cysteine as an 
inhibitor of butyrylcholinesterase and various globular forms of 
acetylcholinesterases.

Sakayanathan P(1), Loganathan C(1), Kandasamy S(2), Ramanna RV(3), Poomani K(2), 
Thayumanavan P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Periyar University, Salem, Tamil Nadu 636011, 
India.
(2)Department of Physics, Periyar University, Salem, Tamil Nadu 636011, India.
(3)Neurophysiology Laboratory, Department of Neurological Sciences, Christian 
Medical College and Hospital, Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632004, India.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Periyar University, Salem, Tamil Nadu 636011, 
India. Electronic address: pal2912@yahoo.com.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD) and diabetes-associated cognitive decline, the 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity is 
increased. AChE exists as different globular molecular forms: tetramer (G4), 
dimer (G2) and monomer (G1). In adult brain, G4 form is abundant however in AD, 
the ratio of lower molecular forms (G1) to G4 form increased. Hence, the present 
study delineated the inhibition of novel astaxanthin-s-allyl cysteine (AST-SAC) 
against BChE and various molecular forms of AChE. Cobra venom, human erythrocyte 
and Electrophorus electricus was used as source of G1, G2 and G4 form of AChE. 
AST-SAC showed inhibition against G1 (IC50 = 0.72 μM, competitive, 
Ki = 0.66 μM), G2 (IC50 = 0.65 μM, mixed, Ki = 0.50 μM) and G4 (IC50 = 0.67 μM, 
competitive, Ki = 0.67 μM) form of AChE. AST-SAC inhibited human brain AChE 
(IC50 = 0.84 μM, competitive, Ki = 0.53 μM) and human serum BChE 
(IC50 = 0.80 μM, competitive, Ki = 0.58 μM). In silico analysis revealed the 
interaction of AST-SAC with the amino acids present in peripheral anionic and 
catalytic site of human AChE and BChE. Molecular dynamics simulation confirmed 
the stable interaction of AST-SAC in the active site gorge of AChE and BChE.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.08.168
PMID: 31442505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Analyst. 2019 Jan 14;144(2):559-566. doi: 10.1039/c8an01808a.

Thiol-ene click reaction-induced fluorescence enhancement by altering the 
radiative rate for assaying butyrylcholinesterase activity.

Chen G (1), Feng H , Xi W , Xu J , Pan S , Qian Z .

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Life Sciences, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua 
321004, China. qianzhaosheng@zjnu.cn.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) generally acts as an important plasma biomarker for 
clinical diagnosis due to its major contribution to human plasma cholinesterase 
levels, but its current fluorometric assay relying on fluorogenic substrates 
frequently suffers from the lack of sufficiently fast response time and specific 
recognition of substrates relative to the traditional Ellman's method. In this 
work, we report a fluorescent molecular probe for assaying BChE activity based 
on thiol-triggered fluorescence enhancement via thiol-ene click reactions. A 
low-temperature experiment and theoretical analysis exclude the possibility of 
weak fluorescence of the probe caused by an intramolecular photoinduced electron 
transfer process and support the main cause of an ultraslow radiative rate due 
to the introduction of two acrylyl groups. This probe has sensitive fluorescence 
responses to thiols via thiol-ene click chemistry, and it can distinguish 
between glutathione and cysteine or homocysteine in different emission colors. 
The rapid reaction kinetics of this probe enables it to monitor hydrolysis 
reactions catalyzed by butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) in a real-time manner. This 
probe is used to develop the first fluorometric assay of BChE activity based on 
fluorescence enhancement triggered by thiol-ene click chemistry using 
butyrylthiocholine as the substrate. The established BChE assay shows excellent 
sensitivity, and is capable of avoiding the interference from glutathione and 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in a complex matrix. The inhibition test of tacrine 
on BChE with this assay substantiates its feasibility in screening potential 
inhibitors of BChE. This work demonstrates a design strategy of fluorescent 
probes lighted up by thiol-ene click reactions, reveals the main cause of 
thiol-triggered fluorescence enhancement by altering the radiative rate, and 
provides the first fluorometric assay of BChE based on rapid thiol-ene click 
reactions.

DOI: 10.1039/c8an01808a
PMID: 30417195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2018 Mar;479(1):98-100. doi: 10.1134/S1607672918020126. 
Epub 2018 May 19.

Stabilization of Butyrylcholinesterase by the Entrapment into the Natural 
Polymer-Based Gels.

Lonshakova-Mukina VI(1), Esimbekova EN(2)(3), Kratasyuk VA(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Siberian Federal University, Krasnoyarsk, 660041, Russia.
(2)Siberian Federal University, Krasnoyarsk, 660041, Russia. 
esimbekova@yandex.ru.
(3)Institute of Biophysics, Siberian Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Federal Research Center, Krasnoyarsk Research Center, Siberian Branch of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Krasnoyarsk, 660036, Russia. esimbekova@yandex.ru.
(4)Institute of Biophysics, Siberian Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Federal Research Center, Krasnoyarsk Research Center, Siberian Branch of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Krasnoyarsk, 660036, Russia.

A new method for obtaining stable butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) samples based on 
the enzyme immobilization in starch and gelatin gels followed by drying is 
proposed. Coimmobilization of BuChE with the thiol group indicator 
5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic) acid did not reduce the activity of BuChE, which 
allowed us to simplify the procedure and reduce the time of analysis of 
organophosphorus pesticides. The resulting immobilized samples retained activity 
for at least 300 days. BuChE samples based on the starch gel showed a greater 
sensitivity in the determination of pesticides as compared to the samples based 
on the gelatin gel.

DOI: 10.1134/S1607672918020126
PMID: 29779107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Molecules. 2017 Oct 27;22(11):1828. doi: 10.3390/molecules22111828.

Bacterial Expression of Human Butyrylcholinesterase as a Tool for Nerve Agent 
Bioscavengers Development.

Brazzolotto X(1), Igert A(2), Guillon V(3), Santoni G(4), Nachon F(5).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Département de Toxicologie et 
Risques Chimiques, 1 Place Général Valérie André, 91223 Brétigny-sur-Orge, 
France. xavier@brazzolotto.net.
(2)Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Département de Toxicologie et 
Risques Chimiques, 1 Place Général Valérie André, 91223 Brétigny-sur-Orge, 
France. alexandre.igert@chemdef.fr.
(3)Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Département de Toxicologie et 
Risques Chimiques, 1 Place Général Valérie André, 91223 Brétigny-sur-Orge, 
France. virginia.guillon@chemdef.fr.
(4)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, 71 Avenue des Martyrs, 38043 
Grenoble CEDEX 9, France. gianluca.santoni@esrf.fr.
(5)Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Département de Toxicologie et 
Risques Chimiques, 1 Place Général Valérie André, 91223 Brétigny-sur-Orge, 
France. florian@nachon.net.

Human butyrylcholinesterase is a performant stoichiometric bioscavenger of 
organophosphorous nerve agents. It is either isolated from outdated plasma or 
functionally expressed in eukaryotic systems. Here, we report the production of 
active human butyrylcholinesterase in a prokaryotic system after optimization of 
the primary sequence through the Protein Repair One Stop Shop process, a 
structure- and sequence-based algorithm for soluble bacterial expression of 
difficult eukaryotic proteins. The mutant enzyme was purified to homogeneity. 
Its kinetic parameters with substrate are similar to the endogenous human 
butyrylcholinesterase or recombinants produced in eukaryotic systems. The 
isolated protein was prone to crystallize and its 2.5-Å X-ray structure revealed 
an active site gorge region identical to that of previously solved structures. 
The advantages of this alternate expression system, particularly for the 
generation of butyrylcholinesterase variants with nerve agent hydrolysis 
activity, are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules22111828
PMCID: PMC6150354
PMID: 29077024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


60. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Feb 17;112(7):2251-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1421536112. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

Plasma butyrylcholinesterase regulates ghrelin to control aggression.

Chen VP(1), Gao Y(1), Geng L(1), Parks RJ(2), Pang YP(3), Brimijoin S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905; Kogod Center on Aging, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905; and.
(2)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON K1Y 4E9, Canada.
(3)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905;
(4)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905; Kogod Center on Aging, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905; and brimijoi@mayo.edu.

Erratum in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Mar 24;112(12):E1510.

Ongoing mouse studies of a proposed therapy for cocaine abuse based on viral 
gene transfer of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) mutated for accelerated cocaine 
hydrolysis have yielded surprising effects on aggression. Further investigation 
has linked these effects to a reduction in circulating ghrelin, driven by BChE 
at levels ∼ 100-fold above normal. Tests with human BChE showed ready ghrelin 
hydrolysis at physiologic concentrations, and multiple low-mass molecular 
dynamics simulations revealed that ghrelin's first five residues fit sterically 
and electrostatically into BChE's active site. Consistent with in vitro results, 
male BALB/c mice with high plasma BChE after gene transfer exhibited sharply 
reduced plasma ghrelin. Unexpectedly, such animals fought less, both 
spontaneously and in a resident/intruder provocation model. One mutant BChE was 
found to be deficient in ghrelin hydrolysis. BALB/c mice transduced with this 
variant retained normal plasma ghrelin levels and did not differ from untreated 
controls in the aggression model. In contrast, C57BL/6 mice with BChE gene 
deletion exhibited increased ghrelin and fought more readily than wild-type 
animals. Collectively, these findings indicate that BChE-catalyzed ghrelin 
hydrolysis influences mouse aggression and social stress, with potential 
implications for humans.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1421536112
PMCID: PMC4343161
PMID: 25646463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


61. Chem Biol Interact. 2016 Nov 25;259(Pt B):70-77. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2016.04.030. 
Epub 2016 Apr 22.

Activity and polymorphisms of butyrylcholinesterase in a Polish population.

Jasiecki J(1), Jońca J(2), Żuk M(2), Szczoczarz A(2), Janaszak-Jasiecka A(2), 
Lewandowski K(2), Waleron K(2), Wasąg B(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland. Electronic address: 
jjasiecki@gumed.edu.pl.
(2)Medical University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity assay and inhibitor phenotyping can help 
to identify individuals at risk of prolonged paralysis following the 
administration of neuromuscular blocking agents, like succinylcholine, 
pesticides and nerve agents. In this study, the activity of BChE and its 
sensitivity to inhibition by dibucaine and fluoride was evaluated in 1200 Polish 
healthy individuals. In addition, molecular analysis of all exons, exon-intron 
boundaries and the 3'UTR sequence of the BCHE gene was performed in a group of 
72 subjects with abnormal BChE activity (<2000 U/L and >5745 U/L) or with DN 
(Dibucaine Number) or FN (Fluoride-Number) values outside the reference range 
(DN < 78 and FN < lower than wild type). In a studied group, BChE activity range 
was similar to those observed in other populations. BChE activity screening 
allowed to detect UA and UF phenotypes in 26 (2.2%) and 15 (1.2%) individuals, 
respectively. Observed UA or UF phenotypes were confirmed by direct sequencing 
and heterozygous c.293A > G or c.1253G > T substitutions were identified in all 
cases. Nine out of 18 (50%) individuals with BChE activity below 2000 U/L had a 
mutation in 5'UTR (32G/A), intron 2 (c.1518-121T/C) or exon 4 (c.1699G/A; the K 
variant mutation). Majority of the individuals with BChE activity ≥6000 U/L were 
wild type. To summarize, the range of BChE activity in a Polish population is 
similar to those observed in other countries. We conclude that the BChE 
phenotyping assay is a reliable method for identification of individuals with 
the UA and UF genotypes.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2016.04.030
PMID: 27109752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 1;308:372-376. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.051. Epub 
2019 May 30.

Structure-based virtual screening leading to discovery of highly selective 
butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors with solanaceous alkaloid scaffolds.

Zhou S(1), Yuan Y(1), Zheng F(2), Zhan CG(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center, 789 South Limestone Street, 
Lexington, KY, 40536, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 
40536, USA.
(2)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center, 789 South Limestone Street, 
Lexington, KY, 40536, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 
40536, USA. Electronic address: fzhen2@uky.edu.
(3)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center, 789 South Limestone Street, 
Lexington, KY, 40536, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY, 
40536, USA. Electronic address: zhan@uky.edu.

According to recent research advance, it is interesting to identify new, potent 
and selective inhibitors of human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) for therapeutic 
treatment of both the Alzheimer's disease (AD) and heroin abuse. In this study, 
we carried out a structure-based virtual screening followed by in vitro activity 
assays, with the goal to identify new inhibitors that are selective for BChE 
over acetylcholinesterase (AChE). As a result, a set of new, selective 
inhibitors of human BChE were identified from natural products with solanaceous 
alkaloid scaffolds. The most active one of the natural products (compound 1) 
identified has an IC50 of 16.8 nM against BChE. It has been demonstrated that 
the desirable selectivity of these inhibitors for BChE over AChE is mainly 
controlled by three key residues in the active site cavity, i.e. residues Q119, 
A277, and A328 in BChE versus the respective residues Y124, W286, and Y337 in 
AChE. Based on this structural insight, future rational design of new, potent 
and selective BChE inhibitors may focus on these key structural differences in 
the active site cavity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.051
PMCID: PMC6613991
PMID: 31152736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Additional Information Competing Financial 
Interests statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest 
for this work.


63. Chem Res Toxicol. 2016 Sep 19;29(9):1381-92. doi: 
10.1021/acs.chemrestox.6b00228. Epub 2016 Aug 31.

Naturally Occurring Genetic Variants of Human Acetylcholinesterase and 
Butyrylcholinesterase and Their Potential Impact on the Risk of Toxicity from 
Cholinesterase Inhibitors.

Lockridge O(1), Norgren RB Jr(2), Johnson RC(3), Blake TA(3).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center , Omaha, Nebraska 
68198-5950, United States.
(2)Genetics, Cell Biology & Anatomy, University of Nebraska Medical Center , 
Omaha, Nebraska 68198-5805, United States.
(3)Division of Laboratory Sciences, National Center for Environmental Health, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 4770 Buford Highway, MS F44, 
Chamblee, Georgia 30341.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is the physiologically important target for 
organophosphorus toxicants (OP) including nerve agents and pesticides. 
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) in blood serves as a bioscavenger that protects 
AChE in nerve synapses from inhibition by OP. Mass spectrometry methods can 
detect exposure to OP by measuring adducts on the active site serine of plasma 
BChE. Genetic variants of human AChE and BChE do exist, but loss of function 
mutations have been identified only in the BCHE gene. The most common AChE 
variant, His353Asn (H322N), also known as the Yt blood group antigen, has normal 
AChE activity. The most common BChE variant, Ala567Thr (A539T) or the K-variant 
in honor of Werner Kalow, has 33% reduced plasma BChE activity. The genetic 
variant most frequently associated with prolonged response to muscle relaxants, 
Asp98Gly (D70G) or atypical BChE, has reduced activity and reduced enzyme 
concentration. Early studies in young, healthy males, performed at a time when 
it was legal to test nerve agents in humans, showed that individuals responded 
differently to the same low dose of sarin with toxic symptoms ranging in 
severity from minimal to moderate. Additionally, animal studies indicated that 
BChE protects from toxicants that have a higher reactivity with AChE than with 
BChE (e.g., nerve agents) but not from toxicants that have a higher reactivity 
with BChE than with AChE (e.g., OP pesticides). As a corollary, we hypothesize 
that individuals with genetic variants of BChE may be at increased risk of 
toxicity from nerve agents but not from OP pesticides.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.6b00228
PMCID: PMC5030680
PMID: 27551784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


64. Chem Biol Interact. 2019 Aug 1;308:113-119. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.022. Epub 
2019 May 14.

Surface screening, molecular modeling and in vitro studies on the interactions 
of aflatoxin M1 and human enzymes acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase.

de Almeida JSFD(1), Cavalcante SFA(2), Dolezal R(3), Kuca K(4), Musilek K(4), 
Jun D(5), França TCC(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Modeling Applied to Chemical and Biological Defense 
(LMDQB) Military Institute of Engineering, Praça General Tibúrcio 80, Praia 
Vermelha, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, 
University of Hradec Kralove, Rokitanskeho, 62, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. 
Electronic address: joycediz@ime.eb.br.
(2)Brazilian Army Institute of Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear 
Defense (IDQBRN), Guaratiba, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho, 62, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; Faculty of Informatics and 
Management, Center for Basic and Applied Research, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho, 62, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Hradec Kralove, 
Rokitanskeho, 62, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Military Healthy Sciences, University of 
Defense, Trebesska 1575, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular Modeling Applied to Chemical and Biological Defense 
(LMDQB) Military Institute of Engineering, Praça General Tibúrcio 80, Praia 
Vermelha, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, 
University of Hradec Kralove, Rokitanskeho, 62, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

Aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) is a mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus fungi and found in 
contaminated milk, breastfeed and dairy products, being highly toxic and 
carcinogenic to humans and other mammalian species. It is also produced in the 
human body as a metabolite of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), one of the most toxic natural 
products known. Previous studies have shown that AFM1 is a potential inhibitor 
of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and therefore, a potential neurotoxic 
agent. In this work, surface screening (SS) and molecular dynamics (MD) 
simulation on human acetylcholinesterase AChE (HssAChE) were performed to 
corroborate literature data regarding preferential binding sites and type of 
inhibition. Also, an inedited theoretical study on the interactions of AFM1 with 
human butyrylcholinesterase (HssBChE) was performed. In vitro inhibition tests 
on both enzymes were done to support theoretical results. MD simulations 
suggested the catalytic anionic site of HssAChE as the preferential binding site 
for AFM1 and also that this metabolite is not a good inhibitor of HssBChE, 
corroborating previous studies. In vitro assays also corroborated molecular 
modeling studies by showing that AFM1 did not inhibit BChE and was able to 
inhibit AChE, although not as much as AFB1.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2019.05.022
PMID: 31100275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Biomolecules. 2020 May 22;10(5):800. doi: 10.3390/biom10050800.

Amaryllidaceae Alkaloids of Belladine-Type from Narcissus pseudonarcissus cv. 
Carlton as New Selective Inhibitors of Butyrylcholinesterase.

Al Mamun A(1), Maříková J(2), Hulcová D(1)(3), Janoušek J(1)(3), Šafratová 
M(1)(3), Nováková L(4), Kučera T(5), Hrabinová M(6)(7), Kuneš J(2), Korábečný 
J(6)(7), Cahlíková L(1).

Author information:
(1)ADINACO Research Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Botany, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Charles University, Heyrovského 1203, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Department of Organic and Bioorganic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles 
University, Heyrovského 1203, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles University, 
Heyrovského 1203, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles University, 
Heyrovského 1203, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Military Medical Service Organisation and Management, Faculty 
of Military Health Sciences, University of Defence, Třebešská 1575, 500 05 
Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Toxicoloxy and Military Pharmacy, Faculty of Military Health 
Sciences, University of Defence, Třebešská 1575, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech 
Republic.
(7)Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 581, 
500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

Thirteen known (1-12 and 16) and three previously undescribed Amaryllidaceae 
alkaloids of belladine structural type, named carltonine A-C (13-15), were 
isolated from bulbs of Narcissus pseudonarcissus cv. Carlton (Amaryllidaceae) by 
standard chromatographic methods. Compounds isolated in sufficient amounts, and 
not tested previously, were evaluated for their in vitro acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE; E.C. 3.1.1.7), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE; E.C. 3.1.1.8) and prolyl 
oligopeptidase (POP; E.C. 3.4.21.26) inhibition activities. Significant human 
BuChE (hBUChE) inhibitory activity was demonstrated by newly described alkaloids 
carltonine A (13) and carltonine B (14) with IC50 values of 913 ± 20 nM and 31 ± 
1 nM, respectively. Both compounds displayed a selective inhibition pattern for 
hBuChE with an outstanding selectivity profile over AChE inhibition, higher than 
100. The in vitro data were further supported by in silico studies of the active 
alkaloids 13 and 14 in the active site of hBuChE.

DOI: 10.3390/biom10050800
PMCID: PMC7277649
PMID: 32455879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


66. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):13270-13275. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1817009115. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Cryo-EM structure of the native butyrylcholinesterase tetramer reveals a dimer 
of dimers stabilized by a superhelical assembly.

Leung MR(1)(2), van Bezouwen LS(1)(3), Schopfer LM(4), Sussman JL(5), Silman 
I(6), Lockridge O(4), Zeev-Ben-Mordehai T(7)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cryo-Electron Microscopy, Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research, Utrecht 
University, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)The Division of Structural Biology, Wellcome Centre for Human Genetics, The 
University of Oxford, OX3 7BN Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Crystal and Structural Chemistry, Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research, 
Utrecht University, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Eppley Cancer Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-6805.
(5)Department of Structural Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 
Rehovot, Israel.
(6)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Rehovot, 
Israel.
(7)Cryo-Electron Microscopy, Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research, Utrecht 
University, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands; z.zeev@uu.nl.

The quaternary structures of the cholinesterases, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), are essential for their localization and 
function. Of practical importance, BChE is a promising therapeutic candidate for 
intoxication by organophosphate nerve agents and insecticides, and for 
detoxification of addictive substances. Efficacy of the recombinant enzyme 
hinges on its having a long circulatory half-life; this, in turn, depends 
strongly on its ability to tetramerize. Here, we used cryoelectron microscopy 
(cryo-EM) to determine the structure of the highly glycosylated native BChE 
tetramer purified from human plasma at 5.7 Å. Our structure reveals that the 
BChE tetramer is organized as a staggered dimer of dimers. Tetramerization is 
mediated by assembly of the C-terminal tryptophan amphiphilic tetramerization 
(WAT) helices from each subunit as a superhelical assembly around a central 
lamellipodin-derived oligopeptide with a proline-rich attachment domain (PRAD) 
sequence that adopts a polyproline II helical conformation and runs 
antiparallel. The catalytic domains within a dimer are asymmetrically linked to 
the WAT/PRAD. In the resulting arrangement, the tetramerization domain is 
largely shielded by the catalytic domains, which may contribute to the stability 
of the human BChE (HuBChE) tetramer. Our cryo-EM structure reveals the basis for 
assembly of the native tetramers and has implications for the therapeutic 
applications of HuBChE. This mode of tetramerization is seen only in the 
cholinesterases but may provide a promising template for designing other 
proteins with improved circulatory residence times.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1817009115
PMCID: PMC6310839
PMID: 30538207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


67. J Control Release. 2016 May 28;230:73-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2016.04.008. 
Epub 2016 Apr 7.

Butyrylcholinesterase nanocapsule as a long circulating bioscavenger with 
reduced immune response.

Zhang P(1), Jain P(1), Tsao C(1), Sinclair A(1), Sun F(1), Hung HC(1), Bai T(1), 
Wu K(1), Jiang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 
98195, United States.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 
98195, United States. Electronic address: sjiang@uw.edu.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is the most promising bioscavenger candidate to 
treat or prevent organophosphate (OP) poisoning. However, the clinical 
application of BChE is limited by two obstacles: an inadequate circulation 
half-life and limited sources for production. Although several modification 
technologies including glycosylation and PEGylation have been developed to 
improve its pharmacokinetics, none of them have been able to outperform 
blood-derived native BChE. In this work, we designed a long-circulating 
bioscavenger nanogel by coating equine serum-derived BChE with a zwitterionic 
polymer gel layer. This zwitterionic gel coating protected BChE from 
denaturation and degradation under harsh conditions. Notably, the nanocapsule 
exhibited a long circulation half-life of ~45h, a three-fold increase from the 
unmodified native version, enabling both therapeutic and prophylactic 
applications. In addition, the gel coating reduced the immunogenicity of equine 
BChE, unlocking the possibility to use non-human derived BChE as an OP 
bioscavenger in humans.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2016.04.008
PMID: 27063423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2018 May;115(5):1301-1310. doi: 10.1002/bit.26557. Epub 2018 
Feb 27.

Purification, characterization, and N-glycosylation of recombinant 
butyrylcholinesterase from transgenic rice cell suspension cultures.

Corbin JM(1), Kailemia MJ(2), Cadieux CL(3), Alkanaimsh S(1)(4), Karuppanan 
K(1), Rodriguez RL(5)(6), Lebrilla CB(2), Cerasoli DM(3), McDonald KA(1)(6), 
Nandi S(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Davis, 
California.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, California.
(3)Medical Toxicology Division, US Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical 
Defense, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering and Petroleum, 
Kuwait University, Safat, Kuwait.
(5)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California, 
Davis, California.
(6)Global HealthShare Initiative, University of California, Davis, California.

Recombinant butyrylcholinesterase produced in a metabolically regulated 
transgenic rice cell culture (rrBChE) was purified to produce a highly pure 
(95%), active form of enzyme. The developed downstream process uses common 
manufacturing friendly operations including tangential flow filtration, 
anion-exchange chromatography, and affinity chromatography to obtain a process 
recovery of 42% active rrBChE. The purified rrBChE was then characterized to 
confirm its comparability to the native human form of the molecule (hBChE). The 
recombinant and native enzyme demonstrated comparable enzymatic behavior and had 
an identical amino acid sequence. However, rrBChE differs in that it contains 
plant-type complex N-glycans, including an α-1,3 linked core fucose, and a β-1,2 
xylose, and lacking a terminal sialic acid. Despite this difference, rrBChE is 
demonstrated to be an effective stoichiometric bioscavenger for five different 
organophosphorous nerve agents in vitro. Together, the efficient downstream 
processing scheme and functionality of rrBChE confirm its promise as a 
cost-effective alternative to hBChE for prophylactic and therapeutic use.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26557
PMCID: PMC7341864
PMID: 29411865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Karen A. McDonald is a 
co-founder of Inserogen, Inc., a plant-based biotechnology company with a focus 
on the development of orphan drugs for replacement therapy. The data analyses, 
results presented, and outcomes of this study are personal views of independent 
authors and do not reflect any financial or commercial interest of either the 
USAMRICD or UC Davis.


69. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 2011 Nov-Dec;69(6):647-52. doi: 10.1684/abc.2011.0634.

[Butyrylcholinesterase activity in schizophrenic patients].

[Article in French]

Mabrouk H(1), Mechria H, Mechri A, Rahali H, Douki W, Gaha L, Fadhel Najjar M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de biochimie-toxicologie, Hôpital Universitaire Fattouma 
Bourguiba, Monastir, Tunisie. hajer_mabrouk@yahoo.fr

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an enzyme that has been investigated for its 
putative role in neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. The aim of 
our work was to study BChE activity variations in schizophrenic patients and to 
investigate the involvement of this enzyme in schizophrenia and the importance 
of determining its activity in this disease. This cross-sectional study was 
carried out 131 (104 males and 27 females, mean age  = 38.0  ±  11.4 years) 
patients with chronic schizophrenia according DSM-IV criteria and 90 (64 males 
and 26 females, mean age  = 37.1  ±  15.9 years) healthy controls. Plasma BChE 
activity was determined by a kinetic method on Integra 400plus(TM) (Roche 
Diagnostics). Patients with schizophrenia had higher plasma BChE activity than 
controls (P < 0.0001). Female patients had higher BChE activity and smokers had 
lower BChE activity than non-smokers either in patients and controls. In 
patients with schizophrenia, BChE activity was not differed with age, alcohol 
status and clinical sub-types, and was not correlated to duration of illness. 
Concerning therapeutic features, BChE activity was higher in patients treated 
with antipsychotics monotherapy than those treated with an association of 
antipsychotic and anticholinergic drugs, without significant difference (P  = 
0.196). Schizophrenic patients showed an increase BChE activity, which could be 
related to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1684/abc.2011.0634
PMID: 22123563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Clin Interv Aging. 2017 May 26;12:897-901. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S137264. eCollection 
2017.

Association between butyrylcholinesterase K variant and mild cognitive 
impairment in the Thai community-dwelling patients.

Pongthanaracht N(1), Yanarojana S(1), Pinthong D(1), Unchern S(1), Thithapandha 
A(1), Assantachai P(2), Supavilai P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Science.
(2)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj 
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To study the association of the butyrylcholinesterase K variant 
(BChE-K) and the plasma BChE activity with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in 
Thai community-dwelling patients.
METHODS: One hundred patients diagnosed with MCI and 100 control subjects were 
recruited from the community-dwelling setting in Bangkok, Thailand. The genotype 
and allele distributions of the BChE-K were determined by polymerase chain 
reaction and subsequent DNA sequencing. The BChE activity was measured in plasma 
according to the Ellman's method.
RESULTS: The BChE-K allele frequencies in the Thai community-dwelling patients 
were in accordance with other ethnics. The BChE-K allele frequency in the 
control subjects (12%) was higher than that of MCI patients (5.5%), suggesting a 
protective role of BChE-K for MCI in the Thai community-dwelling patients. The 
BChE-K homozygotes were significantly associated with lower BChE activity.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggested that the BChE-K may be implicated as a 
protective factor for MCI in the Thai community-dwelling patients, although a 
further study with a large sample size is warranted to confirm this.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S137264
PMCID: PMC5457172
PMID: 28603409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


71. Anal Chem. 2020 Nov 3;92(21):14806-14813. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.0c03575. 
Epub 2020 Oct 15.

In Situ Generation of Prussian Blue by MIL-53 (Fe) for Point-of-Care Testing of 
Butyrylcholinesterase Activity Using a Portable High-Throughput Photothermal 
Device.

Guo L(1), Zhang YJ(1), Yu YL(1), Wang JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Analytical Sciences, Department of Chemistry, College of 
Sciences, Northeastern University, Box 332, Shenyang 110819, China.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), the primary source of serum cholinesterase 
activity, is an indispensable biochemical marker for clinical diagnosis of liver 
function and organophosphorus poisoning. The requirement for bulky and expensive 
instruments represents a huge hindrance for point-of-care testing (POCT) of 
BuChE, especially in resource-limited settings. Herein, an easy-operated, 
economic, and portable photothermal (PT) biosensing platform for high-throughput 
BuChE detection was rationally designed. BuChE could "light up" the PT signal 
through in situ generation of Prussian blue (PB) by MIL-53 (Fe), which allowed 
us to translate biological signals into temperature signals. Such temperature 
change signals could be monitored at high throughput (six samples for a single 
measurement) by a miniature self-made integrated PT device via combining 
separable 96-well plates, a three-dimensional (3D) printed sample bracket, 808 
nm lasers, and thermometers, satisfying the requirement for rapid on-site 
detection in a large batch with low cost. In addition, the large specific 
surface area, 3D network structure, and high porosity of MIL-53 (Fe) offered a 
beneficial platform for its reaction with enzymatic hydrolysate, resulting in 
high sensing sensitivity and low detection limit (0.3 U L-1), which was at least 
20 000 times lower than the normal human serum BuChE activity. This facile, 
affordable, and broad applicability PT sensing platform provides a beneficial 
reference for the rational design of other disease diagnostic approaches 
suitable for POCT.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.0c03575
PMID: 33058681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Xenobiotica. 2019 Jul;49(7):803-810. doi: 10.1080/00498254.2018.1506192. Epub 
2018 Nov 29.

Computational and experimental studies on the interaction between 
butyrylcholinesterase and fluoxetine: implications in health and disease.

Dalmizrak O(1), Teralı K(1), Yetkin O(1), Ogus IH(1), Ozer N(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine , Near East 
University , Mersin , Turkey.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is a serine esterase that plays a role in the 
detoxification of natural as well as synthetic ester-bond-containing compounds. 
Alterations in BChE activity are associated with a number of diseases. 
Cholinergic system abnormalities in particular are correlated with the formation 
of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and administration of 
cholinesterase inhibitors is a common therapeutic approach used to treat AD. 
Here, our aim was to study the interaction between BChE and fluoxetine. 
Molecular docking simulations revealed that fluoxetine penetrated deep into the 
active-site gorge of BChE and that it was engaged in stabilizing noncovalent 
interactions with multiple subsites. In substrate kinetic studies, the Vm, Km, 
kcat and kcat/Km values were found to be 20.59 ± 0.36 U mg-1 protein, 
194 ± 14 µM, 1.3 × 108 s-1 and 6.7 × 105 µM-1s-1, respectively. Based on 
inhibitory studies, fluoxetine appeared to inhibit BChE competitively, with an 
IC50 value of 104 µM and a Ki value of 36.3 ± 4.7 µM. Overall, both the low Ki 
value and the high number of BChE-fluoxetine interactions suggest that 
fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of BChE, although in vivo mechanisms for the 
direct effects of BChE inhibition on various pathologies remain to be further 
investigated.

DOI: 10.1080/00498254.2018.1506192
PMID: 30052110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2018 Mar;164(5):624-628. doi: 10.1007/s10517-018-4046-5. Epub 
2018 Mar 26.

Study of the Oxime-induced Reactivation of Acetyl- and Butyrylcholinesterase of 
Human with Inhibition of Organophosphorus Insecticide In Vitro.

Kolesnikov AM(1), Yuidin MA(2), Nikiforov AS(2), Ivanov IM(2), Vengerovich 
NG(2), Makacheev AS(2).

Author information:
(1)State Research Testing Institute of Military Medicine, Ministry of Defense of 
the Russian Federation, St. Petersburg, Russia. alex9_6_89@mail.ru.
(2)State Research Testing Institute of Military Medicine, Ministry of Defense of 
the Russian Federation, St. Petersburg, Russia.

The efficiency of different reactivators of cholinesterase (toxogonin, 
dipiroxime, pralidoxime, carboxim, HI-6, and methoxime) at inhibition of 
butyrylcholinesterase and human acetylcholinesterase by organophosphate 
insecticide malathion was evaluated in in vitro experiments. Most reactivators 
increased inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase in comparison with the control, 
but HI-6 in a concentration of 10-3 mol/liter partially (10%) restored activity 
of the enzyme. Oxime-induced reactivation of acetylcholinesterase was most 
pronounced in dipyroxime and toxogonin: parameters of the kinetics of reduction 
of the phosphorylated enzyme differed by more than 2 times from the values 
received with the use of other reactivators.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-018-4046-5
PMID: 29577198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Sep 6;187(1-3):249-52. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.05.014. 
Epub 2010 Jun 1.

Butyrylcholinesterase as a therapeutic drug for protection against percutaneous 
VX.

Lenz DE(1), Clarkson ED, Schulz SM, Cerasoli DM.

Author information:
(1)US Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 3100 Ricketts Point 
Rd., Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21010, United States of America. 
david.lenz@us.army.mil

The administration of purified human plasma-derived butyrylcholinesterase 
(HuBuChE) as a pretreatment has been demonstrated to enhance survival and 
protect against decreased cognitive function after exposure to organophosphorus 
poisons (OPs). Based on efficacy data obtained with guinea pigs and non-human 
primates and the lack of behavioral side effects, plasma-derived HuBuChE has 
been granted investigational new drug status by the US Food and Drug 
Administration. The recent availability of a recombinant form of HuBuChE 
(rHuBuChE) from the milk of transgenic goats has now allowed us to determine the 
pharmacokinetics of that material in guinea pigs and use it as a therapy 
following exposure to the VX. The rHuBuChE was expressed as a dimer and 
following intramuscular (i.m.) administration had more a rapid adsorption and 
clearance profile in guinea pigs than the plasma-derived material. Based on 
those data, we administered rHuBuChE i.m. 1h after a percutaneous exposure of 
guinea pigs to either 2xLD(50) or 5xLD(50) of VX. Post-exposure therapy with 
rHuBuChE provided improved survival at both challenge levels, 90% and 33% 
respectively versus 20% or 0% respectively for animals that did not receive 
therapy. These studies showed that BuChE can be efficacious as a therapy against 
percutaneous exposure to VX.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.05.014
PMID: 20513442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Enzyme Inhib Med Chem. 2015 Feb;30(1):98-106. doi: 
10.3109/14756366.2014.889127. Epub 2014 Mar 25.

Discovery of butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors among derivatives of 
azaphenothiazines.

Lodarski K(1), Jończyk J, Guzior N, Bajda M, Gładysz J, Walczyk J, Jeleń M, 
Morak-Młodawska B, Pluta K, Malawska B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physicochemical Drug Analysis, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical 
College, Jagiellonian University , Kraków , Poland and.

The study presents the discovery of novel butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) 
inhibitors among derivatives of azaphenothiazines by application of in silico 
and in vitro screening methods. From an in-house library of compounds, 143 
heterocyclic molecules derived from the azaphenothiazine scaffold were chosen 
for virtual screening. Based on results of the docking procedure, 15 compounds 
were identified as exhibiting the best fit for the two screening complexes 
(ligand - AChE and ligand - BuChE). Five compounds displayed moderate AChE and 
good BuChE inhibitory activity at screening concentrations of 10 µM. The IC50 
values for active BuChE inhibitors were in the 11.8-122.2 nM range. Three of the 
most active inhibitors are tetra- or pentacyclic derivatives of 
azaphenothiazines with the same N-methyl-2-piperidinethyl substituent.

DOI: 10.3109/14756366.2014.889127
PMID: 24666296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Phytomedicine. 2019 Feb 15;54:278-290. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.199. Epub 
2018 Sep 18.

Pharmacophore-based drug design for the identification of novel 
butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors against Alzheimer's disease.

Jiang Y(1), Gao H(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources and Chemistry in Arid Regions, Xinjiang 
Technical Institute of Physics and Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Urumqi, 830011, China.
(2)School of Life Science, Ludong University, China; Key Laboratory of Plant 
Resources and Chemistry in Arid Regions, Xinjiang Technical Institute of Physics 
and Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Urumqi, 830011, China. Electronic 
address: gaohongw369@ms.xjb.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a severe neurodegenerative disease of the 
central nervous system in the elderly.
HYPOTHESIS/PURPOSE: In our study, we aimed to find the best potential small 
molecule for AD treatment.
STUDY DESIGN: We used many models in Discovery Studio 2016 to find new potential 
inhibitors of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), including pharmacophore model, 
virtual screening model, molecular docking model, de novo evolution model.
METHODS: Ligand-based pharmacophore models were used to identify the critical 
chemical features of BChE inhibitors using the module of 3D QSAR Pharmacophore 
Generation in Discovery Studio 2016. The best pharmacophore model was then 
validated by cost analysis, Fischer's randomization method, 3D-QSAR Method of 
the training set and test set. The compounds that match the best pharmacophore 
model with the predicted activity <1 μM filtered by Lipinski's rule of five were 
subjected to molecular docking.
RESULT: After virtual screening, 35 compounds filtered by Lipinski's rule of 
five and ADMET analysis were subjected to molecular docking and then the number 
were narrowed down on 10 compounds based on -CDOCKER_ENERGY. Finally, we 
obtained and modified the best potential candidate ENA739155.
CONCLUSION: Ultimately, ENA739155_Evo with -CDOCKER_ENERGY of 47.12, estimate 
activity of 0.012, fit value of 10.02 could be further subjected to drug 
development and forwarded as better alternatives to the current batch of 
medicines used for the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.09.199
PMID: 30668379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Vet J. 2012 Jun;192(3):494-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2011.06.040. Epub 2011 Aug 4.

Serum butyrylcholinesterase activity in dogs with diabetes mellitus.

Tvarijonaviciute A(1), Ceron JJ, Caldin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Medicine and Surgery, Veterinary School, University of 
Murcia, 30100 Murcia, Spain.

Increased serum butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity is a feature of diabetes 
mellitus (DM) in humans and rats. The objective of this study was to evaluate 
serum BChE activity in diabetic dogs. The activity of the enzyme was assessed in 
three cohorts of animals: (1) dogs with naturally occurring DM (n=74); (2) 
clinically normal dogs (n=74); and (3) dogs with various other diseases (n=74). 
A statistically significant increase in BChE activity was found in the diabetic 
dogs (7.59 ± 2.9 kUI/L) compared with the clinically normal animals (6.12 ± 1.94 
kUI/L; P<0.05), and with the dogs with other diseases (5.55 ± 2.06 kUI/L; 
P<0.01). Such increased activity could be the result of the altered glucose and 
lipid metabolism that occurs in DM.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2011.06.040
PMID: 21820337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Chem Biol Interact. 2017 Sep 25;275:86-94. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2017.07.019. Epub 
2017 Jul 27.

Polyionic complexes of butyrylcholinesterase and poly-l-lysine-g-poly(ethylene 
glycol): Comparative kinetics of catalysis and inhibition and in vitro 
inactivation by proteases and heat.

Hester K(1), Liu J(1), Flynn N(2), Sultatos LG(3), Geng L(4), Brimijoin S(4), 
Ramsey JD(2), Hartson S(5), Ranjan A(1), Pope C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, 
OK 74078, United States.
(2)School of Chemical Engineering, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK 
74078, United States.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology, and Neuroscience, New Jersey Medical 
School, Rutgers University, Newark, NJ 07103, United States.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Molecular Therapeutics, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, United States.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oklahoma State University, 
Stillwater, OK 74078, United States.
(6)Department of Physiological Sciences, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, 
OK 74078, United States. Electronic address: carey.pope@okstate.edu.

We previously reported that recombinant human butyrylcholinesterase (rhBChE) 
complexed with a series of copolymers of poly-l-lysine (PLL) with grafted 
(polyethylene) glycol (PEG) (i.e., PLL-g-PEG) showed reduced catalytic activity 
but relatively similar concentration-dependent inactivation of the 
organophosphorus inhibitor paraoxon. Herein, we compared the kinetics of 
catalysis (using butyrylthiocholine as the substrate) and inhibition (using four 
different inhibitors) of free and copolymer-complexed rhBChE. Using scanning 
electron microscopy, polyionic complexes of rhBChE with three different 
PLL-g-PEG copolymers (based on PLL size) appeared as spheroid-shaped particles 
with relatively similar particle sizes (median diameter = 35 nm). Relatively 
similar particle sizes were also noted using dynamic light scattering 
(mean = 26-35 nm). The three copolymer-complexed enzymes exhibited reduced kcat 
(30-33% reduction), but no significant changes in Km. Inhibitory potency (as 
reflected by the bimolecular rate constant, ki) was similar among the free and 
copolymer-complexed enzymes when paraoxon was the inhibitor, whereas 
statistically significant reductions in ki (16-60%) were noted with the other 
inhibitors. Sensitivity to inactivation by proteases and heat was also compared. 
Copolymer-complexed enzymes showed lesser time-dependent inactivation by the 
proteases trypsin and pronase and by heat compared to the free enzyme. 
Understanding the unique properties of PLL-g-PEG-BChE complexes may lead to 
enhanced approaches for use of BChE and other protein bioscavengers.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2017.07.019
PMID: 28756151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Mol Biosyst. 2014 Feb;10(2):348-54. doi: 10.1039/c3mb70313d.

A model of glycosylated human butyrylcholinesterase.

Fang L(1), Zheng F, Zhan CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY 40536, USA. zhan@uky.edu.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and its mutants have shown great potential in 
treating cocaine overdose and addiction. In order to effectively suppress 
cocaine reward in the brain for a long period of time after an exogenous cocaine 
hydrolase administration, the therapeutic enzyme should have not only a high 
catalytic efficiency against cocaine, but also a sufficiently long circulation 
time. It has been known that PEGylation (covalent attachment of polyethylene 
glycol) modification of a therapeutic protein can prolong the biological 
half-life of the protein without affecting its biological function. However, the 
asparagine-linked glycans on the surface of glycosylated BChE may interfere with 
the PEGylation modification. In this study, we built a three-dimensional (3D) 
model of glycosylated human BChE to investigate the influence of glycans on the 
PEGylation modification. Glycans did not change the overall stability of the 
BChE structure, but could increase the flexibility of some local structures. For 
further evaluating the accessibility of the PEGylation reaction sites, 
particularly lysine residues, on the protein surface, we calculated the Solvent 
Accessible Surface Areas (SASAs) of these residues. The results indicate that 
some lysine residues show a significant decrease in SASA due to the direct or 
indirect influence of their surrounding glycans. The results also indicate that 
PEGylation reaction agents with smaller functional groups could have a better 
chance to react with lysine residues. This investigation provides a structural 
basis for rational engineering of human BChE and its mutants as therapeutic 
candidates.

DOI: 10.1039/c3mb70313d
PMCID: PMC3947857
PMID: 24327294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Environ Sci Health B. 2018;53(11):713-718. doi: 10.1080/03601234.2018.1480155. 
Epub 2018 Jun 8.

Evaluation of the inhibitory effect of abamectin on mammalian 
butyrylcholinesterase: Enzyme kinetic and molecular docking studies.

Teralı K(1), Dalmizrak O(1), Hoti Q(1), Ozer N(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medical Biochemistry , Faculty of Medicine, Near East 
University , Nicosia , Turkey.

Erratum in
    J Environ Sci Health B. 2019;54(1):77.

Abamectin, a blend of the natural avermectins B1a and B1b, is a widely-used 
insecticide/miticide with relatively low toxicity to mammals. Exposure to high 
doses of it, however, leads to cholinergic-like neurotoxic effects. 
Butyrylcholinesterase, which is best known for its abundant presence in plasma, 
is a serine hydrolase loosely coupled with the cholinergic system. It protects 
and supports the neurotransmitter function of its sister enzyme 
acetylcholinesterase. Here, using experimental and computational studies, we 
provide evidence demonstrating that abamectin is a potent (IC50 = 10.6 μM; Ki = 
2.26 ± 0.35 μM) inhibitor of horse serum butyrylcholinesterase and that it 
interacts with the enzyme in a reversible, competitive manner predictively to 
block the mouth of the active-site gorge of the enzyme and to bind to several 
critical residues that normally bind/hydrolyze choline esters.

DOI: 10.1080/03601234.2018.1480155
PMID: 29883250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2017 Aug;163(4):430-435. doi: 10.1007/s10517-017-3821-z. Epub 
2017 Aug 29.

Application of Tetrameric Recombinant Human Butyrylcholinesterase as a 
Biopharmaceutical for Amelioration of Symptoms of Acute Organophosphate 
Poisoning.

Terekhov SS(1), Palikov VA(2), Palikova YA(2), Dyachenko IA(2), Shamborant 
OG(3), Smirnov IV(3), Masson P(4), Gabibov AG(3).

Author information:
(1)V. V. Shemyakin and Yu. A. Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia. sterekhoff@mail.ru.
(2)Affiliated Branch of V. V. Shemyakin and Yu. A. Ovchinnikov Institute of 
Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 
Russia.
(3)V. V. Shemyakin and Yu. A. Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Kazan (Volga Region) Federal University, Kazan, Republic of Tatarstan, 
Russia.

We present a procedure for optimizing the expression of recombinant tetrameric 
butyrylcholinesterase that enables large-scale production with the yield >30 
mg/liter (>90 mg/roller bottle). Intravenous injection of the preparation 
significantly increased survival and decreased the severity of symptoms of 
poisoning with paraoxon, an organophosphorus toxin.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-017-3821-z
PMID: 28853097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Anal Chim Acta. 2020 May 15;1111:8-15. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2020.03.031. Epub 2020 
Mar 17.

Thiol inhibition of Hg cold vapor generation in SnCl(2)/NaBH(4) system: A 
homogeneous bioassay for H(2)O(2)/glucose and butyrylcholinesterase/pesticide 
sensing by atomic spectrometry.

Chen P(1), Zheng C(2), Chen C(3), Huang K(4), Wang X(4), Hu P(4), Geng J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and 
Cancer Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University and Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biotherapy, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Green Chemistry & Technology of MOE, College of Chemistry, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610064, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and 
Cancer Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University and Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biotherapy, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China; Institute of 
Pharmacology & School of Pharmacy, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, 
Sichuan, 637000, China.
(4)College of Chemistry and Material Science, Sichuan Normal University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, 610068, China.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and 
Cancer Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University and Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biotherapy, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China. Electronic 
address: geng.jia@scu.edu.cn.

Recently, the use of atomic spectrometry (AS) for biochemical analysis has 
attracted considerable attention due to its high sensitivity, selectivity and 
anti-interference ability. In this work, we conducted a detailed study on a 
phenomenon of thiol inhibition of mercury (Hg2+) cold vapor generation (CVG) and 
found L-cysteine (L-Cys), glutathione (GSH), dithiothreitol, 
N-Acetyl-L-cysteine, 3-mercaptopropionic acid, β-mercaptoethanol, and NaI can 
inhibit the CVG of Hg2+, while EDTA has no inhibitory effect. Furthermore, 
changing the content of -SH can effectively adjust the CVG atomic fluorescence 
spectrometer (CVG-AFS) signal of Hg2+. As as a consequence, an AS-based 
homogeneous bioassay was constructed by adjusting the oxidation ratio and 
production quantity of -SH in the system. The quantitative analysis of the 
system was demonstrated by using AFS as a representative detector. Hydrogen 
peroxide (H2O2) and glucose were used as representative analytes for the 
validation of Hg2+ atomic fluorescence signal turn-off strategy, and 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) as well as parathion (organophosphorus pesticides, 
OPs) as utilized as representative targets for the signal turn-on strategy. 
Under optimal experimental conditions, the homogeneous CVG-AFS sensor can be 
successfully used to detect 3 μM H2O2, 30 μM glucose, 0.25 U/L BChE, and 
0.4 μg/mL parathion. In addition, the detection results of glucose and BChE in 
human serum samples agreed well with those obtained by using glucometer and kit, 
showing the promising potential of this method for practical applications. 
Therefore, this work provides a perspective for the construction of AS-based 
homogeneous bioassays and shows great potential for the detection of biomarkers.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2020.03.031
PMID: 32312400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Intern Med J. 2009 Jan;39(1):57-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01779.x.

Butyrylcholinesterase: biomarker for exposure to organophosphorus insecticides.

Stefanidou M(1), Athanaselis S, Spiliopoulou H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Medical School, University of 
Athens, 75 M. Asias Street, Goudi 115.27, Greece.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) is routinely measured to assess exposure to or 
effects of organophosphorus insecticides (OP). As a biomarker, it can be used to 
clarify the relation between exposure to OP and health impairment. The 
interpretation of BuChE inhibition data, particularly of small changes in 
enzymatic activity, sometimes presents significant complexities. These 
complexities are presented in this short communication and the factors that 
influence the degree of BuChE inhibition are discussed. Despite the complexities 
of their interpretation, BuChE measurements remain a mainstay for the fast 
initial screening of exposure to OP; thus, they are a useful tool in the 
protection of humans, domestic animals and wildlife from overexposure to these 
toxic agents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01779.x
PMID: 19290984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2017;16(7):820-827. doi: 
10.2174/1871527316666170207160606.

Inhibition of Butyrylcholinesterase with Fluorobenzylcymserine, An Experimental 
Alzheimer's Drug Candidate: Validation of Enzoinformatics Results by Classical 
and Innovative Enzyme Kinetic Analyses.

Kamal MA(1), Shakil S(2), Nawaz MS(3), Yu QS(4), Tweedie D(4), Tan Y(5), Qu 
X(5), Greig NH(6).

Author information:
(1)King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah. Saudi 
Arabia.
(2)Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine Research, King Abdulaziz University, 
Jeddah. Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biological Science, COMSATS, Islamabad, Pakistan; 4Novel Global 
Community Educational Foundation, New South Wales. Australia.
(4)Drug Design & Development Section, Laboratory of Neurosciences, Intramural 
Research Program, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, 
Baltimore, MD 21224. United States.
(5)Department of Medical & Molecular Biosciences, Faculty of Science, University 
of Technology, Sydney, NSW. Australia.
(6)Drug Design & Development Section, Gerontology Research Center, Room 4B02, 
5600 Nathan Shock Dr., Baltimore, MD 21224. United States.

BACKGROUND: Selective butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE)-inhibition, increases 
acetylcholine (ACh) levels. In rodents, this inhibition is known to boost 
cognition. Also, this occurs without the typical unwanted adverse effects of 
acetylcholinesterase-inhibitors or AChE-Is. The novel compound, 
fluorobenzylcymserine (FBC), is derived from our effort to design a selective 
BuChE-inhibitor. Also, we wanted to check whether 
butyrylcholinesterase-inhibitors (BuChE-Is) possessed an edge over AChE-Is in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) in terms of efficacy and/or tolerance.
METHOD: FBC was synthesized as reported earlier while enzymatic activity of 
BuChE was calculated by Ellman-technique. Molecular docking was performed using 
Autodock4.2. We applied classical as well as innovative analyses of 
enzyme-kinetics for exploring "FBC:human BuChE-interaction". The mode of 
inhibition and kinetic parameters were also determined.
RESULTS: Docking results displayed two strong interacting sites for FBC. One of 
these binding sites was previously identified as a deep narrow groove having 
polar aromatic residues while a second site was identified during this study 
which displayed better interaction and was lined with aliphatic and sulphur 
containing residues. At low concentrations of BuChE, the IC50 was found to be 
very low i.e. 4.79 and 6.10 nM for 12 and 36 µg, respectively, whereas it 
increased exponentially by increasing the units of BuChE.
CONCLUSION: These analyses indicate that FBC is an interesting AD drug candidate 
that could provide a potent and partial mixed type of inhibition of human BuChE.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527316666170207160606
PMCID: PMC5831670
PMID: 28176640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflict of interest, financial or otherwise.


85. Biochimie. 2019 Jan;156:196-205. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2018.10.017. Epub 2018 
Oct 29.

3D structure of the natural tetrameric form of human butyrylcholinesterase as 
revealed by cryoEM, SAXS and MD.

Boyko KM(1), Baymukhametov TN(2), Chesnokov YM(2), Hons M(3), Lushchekina SV(4), 
Konarev PV(5), Lipkin AV(2), Vasiliev AL(5), Masson P(6), Popov VO(7), Kovalchuk 
MV(5).

Author information:
(1)Bach Institute of Biochemistry, Research Center of Biotechnology of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky pr. 33, bld. 2, Moscow, 119071, Russia; 
National Research Center, Kurchatov Institute, Akademika Kurchatova pl. 1, 
Moscow, 123182, Russia. Electronic address: kmb@inbi.ras.ru.
(2)National Research Center, Kurchatov Institute, Akademika Kurchatova pl. 1, 
Moscow, 123182, Russia.
(3)EMBL Grenoble, 71 avenue des Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042, Grenoble Cedex 9, 
France.
(4)Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics, Russian Academy of Sciences, 4 ul. 
Kosygina, Moscow, 119334, Russian Federation.
(5)National Research Center, Kurchatov Institute, Akademika Kurchatova pl. 1, 
Moscow, 123182, Russia; Shubnikov Institute of Crystallography of Federal 
Scientific Research Centre "Crystallography and Photonics" Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Leninsky pr. 59, Moscow, 119333, Russia.
(6)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kazan Federal University, 18 Kremlevskaia ul., 
48000, Kazan, Russian Federation. Electronic address: pym.masson@free.fr.
(7)Bach Institute of Biochemistry, Research Center of Biotechnology of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky pr. 33, bld. 2, Moscow, 119071, Russia; 
National Research Center, Kurchatov Institute, Akademika Kurchatova pl. 1, 
Moscow, 123182, Russia.

Human plasma butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an endogenous bioscavenger that 
hydrolyzes numerous medicamentous and poisonous esters and scavenges potent 
organophosphorus nerve agents. BChE is thus a marker for the diagnosis of OP 
poisoning. It is also considered a therapeutic target against Alzheimer's 
disease. Although the X-ray structure of a partially deglycosylated monomer of 
human BChE was solved 15 years ago, all attempts to determine the 3D structure 
of the natural full-length glycosylated tetrameric human BChE have been 
unsuccessful so far. Here, a combination of three complementary structural 
methods-single-particle cryo-electron microscopy, molecular dynamics and 
small-angle X-ray scattering-were implemented to elucidate the overall 
structural and spatial organization of the natural tetrameric human plasma BChE. 
A 7.6 Å cryoEM map clearly shows the major features of the enzyme: a dimer of 
dimers with a nonplanar monomer arrangement, in which the interconnecting super 
helix complex PRAD-(WAT)4-peptide C-terminal tail is located in the center of 
the tetramer, nearly perpendicular to its plane, and is plunged deep between the 
four subunits. Molecular dynamics simulations allowed optimization of the 
geometry of the molecule and reconstruction of the structural features invisible 
in the cryoEM density, i.e., glycan chains and glycan interdimer contact areas, 
as well as intermonomer disulfide bridges at the C-terminal tail. Finally, SAXS 
data were used to confirm the consistency of the obtained model with the 
experimental data. The tetramer organization of BChE is unique in that the four 
subunits are joined at their C-termini through noncovalent contacts with a short 
polyproline-rich peptide. This tetramer structure could serve as a model for the 
design of highly stable glycosylated tetramers.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2018.10.017
PMID: 30385318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Endocrinology. 2016 Aug;157(8):3086-95. doi: 10.1210/en.2016-1166. Epub 2016 Jun 
14.

Butyrylcholinesterase Deficiency Promotes Adipose Tissue Growth and Hepatic 
Lipid Accumulation in Male Mice on High-Fat Diet.

Chen VP(1), Gao Y(1), Geng L(1), Stout MB(1), Jensen MD(1), Brimijoin S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Kogod 
Center on Aging, Mayo Clinic, and Minnesota Nutrition and Obesity Center, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

Despite numerous reports of relationships between weight gain and 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), this enzyme's role in the genesis of obesity 
remains unclear, but recent research points to strong links with ghrelin, the 
"hunger hormone." The availability of BChE knockout (KO) mice provides an 
opportunity to clarify the causal relationship between BChE and obesity onset. 
We now find that young KO mice have abnormally high plasma ghrelin levels that 
slowly decline during long-term high-fat feeding and ultimately drop below those 
in wild-type mice. On such a diet, the KO mice gained notably more weight, more 
white fat, and more hepatic fat than wild-type animals. In addition to a greater 
burden of hepatic triglycerides, the livers of these KO mice show distinctly 
higher levels of inflammatory markers. Finally, their energy expenditure proved 
to be lower than in wild-type mice despite similar activity levels and increased 
caloric intake. A gene transfer of mouse BChE with adeno-associated virus vector 
restored nearly all aspects of the normal phenotype. Our results indicate that 
BChE strongly affects fat metabolism, has an important impact on fat 
accumulation, and may be a promising tool for combating obesity.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1166
PMCID: PMC4967128
PMID: 27300766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. FEBS J. 2006 Mar;273(6):1185-97. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2006.05144.x.

Rat butyrylcholinesterase-catalysed hydrolysis of N-alkyl homologues of 
benzoylcholine.

Hrabovská A(1), Debouzy JC, Froment MT, Devínsky F, Pauliková I, Masson P.

Author information:
(1)Comenius University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Cell and Molecular 
Biology of Drugs, Bratislava, Slovakia. hrabovska@pharm.uniba.sk

The purpose of this work was to study the catalytic properties of rat 
butyrylcholinesterase with benzoylcholine (BzCh) and N-alkyl derivatives of BzCh 
(BCHn) as substrates. Complex hysteretic behaviour was observed in the approach 
to steady-state kinetics for each ester. Hysteresis consisted of a long lag 
phase with damped oscillation. The presence of a long lag phase, with no 
oscillations, in substrate hydrolysis by rat butyrylcholinesterase was also 
observed with N-methylindoxyl acetate as substrate. Hysteretic behaviour was 
explained by the existence of two interconvertible butyrylcholinesterase forms 
in slow equilibrium, while just one of them is catalytically active. The damped 
oscillations were explained by the existence of different substrate 
conformational states and/or aggregates (micelles) in slow equilibrium. 
Different substrate conformational states were confirmed by 1H-NMR. The K(m) 
values for substrates decreased as the length of the alkyl chain increased. High 
affinity of the enzyme for the longest alkyl chain length substrates was 
explained by multiple hydrophobic interactions of the alkyl chain with amino 
acid residues lining the active site gorge. Molecular modelling studies 
supported this interpretation; docking energy decreased as the length of the 
alkyl chain increased. The long-chain substrates had reduced k(cat) values. 
Docking studies showed that long-chain substrates were not optimally oriented in 
the active site for catalysis, thus explaining the slow rate of hydrolysis. The 
hydrolytic rate of BCH12 and longer alkyl chain esters vs. substrate 
concentration showed a premature plateau far below V(max). This was due to the 
loss of substrate availability. The best substrates for rat 
butyrylcholinesterase were short alkyl homologues, BzCh - BCH4.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2006.05144.x
PMID: 16519684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Sci Rep. 2017 Sep 5;7(1):10419. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-10571-z.

Plant-expressed cocaine hydrolase variants of butyrylcholinesterase exhibit 
altered allosteric effects of cholinesterase activity and increased inhibitor 
sensitivity.

Larrimore KE(1)(2), Kazan IC(3), Kannan L(1), Kendle RP(1)(4), Jamal T(1), 
Barcus M(1)(5), Bolia A(3)(6), Brimijoin S(7), Zhan CG(8), Ozkan SB(3), Mor 
TS(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Center for Immunotherapy, Vaccines, and 
Virotherapy, Biodesign Institute, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 
85287-4501, USA.
(2)Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, 117604, Singapore.
(3)Department of Physics and Center for Biological Physics, Arizona State 
University, Tempe, AZ, 85287-1504, USA.
(4)Department of Botany, College of Letters and Sciences, University of 
Wisconsin Madison, Madison, WI, 53706, USA.
(5)Department of Animal Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA.
(6)ARUP Labs, Salt Lake City, UT, 84108, USA.
(7)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA.
(8)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, Lexington, 
KY, 40536, USA.
(9)School of Life Sciences and Center for Immunotherapy, Vaccines, and 
Virotherapy, Biodesign Institute, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, 
85287-4501, USA. tsafrir.mor@asu.edu.

Erratum in
    Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 16;8(1):17223.

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is an enzyme with broad substrate and ligand 
specificities and may function as a generalized bioscavenger by binding and/or 
hydrolyzing various xenobiotic agents and toxicants, many of which target the 
central and peripheral nervous systems. Variants of BChE were rationally 
designed to increase the enzyme's ability to hydrolyze the psychoactive 
enantiomer of cocaine. These variants were cloned, and then expressed using the 
magnICON transient expression system in plants and their enzymatic properties 
were investigated. In particular, we explored the effects that these 
site-directed mutations have over the enzyme kinetics with various substrates of 
BChE. We further compared the affinity of various anticholinesterases including 
organophosphorous nerve agents and pesticides toward these BChE variants 
relative to the wild type enzyme. In addition to serving as a therapy for 
cocaine addiction-related diseases, enhanced bioscavenging against other harmful 
agents could add to the practicality and versatility of the plant-derived 
recombinant enzyme as a multivalent therapeutic.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-10571-z
PMCID: PMC5585256
PMID: 28874829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.E.L., L.K., S.B., C.-G.Z. and T.S.M. are 
listed as inventors in various patents and patent applications relating to 
various aspects of the presented data.


89. Molecules. 2017 Jun 29;22(7):1083. doi: 10.3390/molecules22071083.

The C5 Variant of the Butyrylcholinesterase Tetramer Includes a Noncovalently 
Bound 60 kDa Lamellipodin Fragment.

Schopfer LM(1), Delacour H(2), Masson P(3)(4), Leroy J(5), Krejci E(6), 
Lockridge O(7).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(2)Hôpital d'Instruction des Armées Bégin-Département des Laboratoires, 69, 
Avenue de Paris, 94 163 Saint Mandé, France. herve.delacour@intradef.gouv.fr.
(3)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. pmasson@unmc.edu.
(4)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Kazan Federal University, 420000 Kazan, Russia. 
pmasson@unmc.edu.
(5)CNRS Université Paris Descartes Cognition Action Group UMR 8257, 75006 Paris, 
France. jacma.leroy@parisdescartes.fr.
(6)CNRS Université Paris Descartes Cognition Action Group UMR 8257, 75006 Paris, 
France. eric.krejci@univ-paris5.fr.
(7)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. olockrid@unmc.edu.

Humans with the C5 genetic variant of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) have 30-200% 
higher plasma BChE activity, low body weight, and shorter duration of action of 
the muscle relaxant succinylcholine. The C5 variant has an extra, slow-moving 
band of BChE activity on native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. This band is 
about 60 kDa larger than wild-type BChE. Umbilical cord BChE in 100% of newborn 
babies has a C5-like band. Our goal was to identify the unknown, 60 kDa protein 
in C5. Both wild-type and C5 BChE are under the genetic control of two 
independent loci, the BCHE gene on Chr 3q26.1 and the RAPH1 (lamellipodin) gene 
on Chr 2q33. Wild-type BChE tetramers are assembled around a 3 kDa polyproline 
peptide from lamellipodin. Western blot of boiled C5 and cord BChE showed a 
positive response with an antibody to the C-terminus of lamellipodin. The 
C-terminal exon of lamellipodin is about 60 kDa including an N-terminal 
polyproline. We propose that the unknown protein in C5 and cord BChE is encoded 
by the last exon of the RAPH1 gene. In 90% of the population, the 60 kDa 
fragment is shortened to 3 kDa during maturation to adulthood, leaving only 10% 
of adults with C5 BChE.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules22071083
PMCID: PMC6152381
PMID: 28661448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


90. J Chromatogr Sci. 2018 Mar 1;56(3):248-253. doi: 10.1093/chromsci/bmx107.

Comparison of Efficiency of Purification (from Human Plasma) of a Nerve Agent 
Adduct of Butyrylcholinesterase Between the Affinity Gel Method and 
Immunomagnetic Separation.

Lee JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Defense Development (ADD), PO Box 35-5, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 
305-600, Republic of Korea.

O-ethyl S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methyl phosphonothiolate (VX) is a highly 
toxic chemical warfare agent because it inhibits cholinesterase (ChE) activity 
in the nervous system. Inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity by VX 
is due to formation of a phosphorylated BChE adduct; this adduct in human plasma 
can serve as a biomarker of exposure to nerve agents. We compared purification 
efficiency between the procainamide affinity gel method and immunomagnetic 
separation (IMS) for the nerve agent adduct of BChE in plasma and then optimized 
the sample preparation by purifying BChE to measure biomarkers of human exposure 
to organophosphorus nerve agents. The purification efficiency of IMS was 5-fold 
greater than that of the procainamide affinity gel method because the antibody 
conjugate with protein G magnetic beads ensured highly selective capture and 
high recovery of VX-inhibited BChE from plasma. Protein isolation and extraction 
of the adduct of VX-inhibited BChE from plasma were made more specific by IMS. A 
50 µL of the IMS solution was enough to bind VX-inhibited BChE in up to 0.5 mL 
of plasma. Nonetheless, the IMS method has a limitation in terms of 
reutilization of the complexes antibody-magnetic beads. We expect that this 
approach can be used to quantify other types of organophosphorus adducts in 
human plasma, thus serving as a possible general assay for biomarkers of 
exposure to nerve agents.

DOI: 10.1093/chromsci/bmx107
PMID: 29244127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Biomed Pharmacother. 2017 Jan;85:646-657. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.076. 
Epub 2016 Nov 27.

Novel butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors through pharmacophore modeling, virtual 
screening and DFT-based approaches along-with design of bioisosterism-based 
analogues.

Gogoi D(1), Chaliha AK(2), Sarma D(3), Kakoti BB(1), Buragohain AK(4).

Author information:
(1)DBT-Bioinformatics Infrastructure Facility, Centre for Biotechnology and 
Bioinformatics, School of Science and Engineering, Dibrugarh University, 
Dibrugarh, Assam, India.
(2)Centre for Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Science and 
Engineering, Dibrugarh University, Dibrugarh, Assam, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, School of Science and Engineering, Dibrugarh 
University, Dibrugarh, Assam, India.
(4)Centre for Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Science and 
Engineering, Dibrugarh University, Dibrugarh, Assam, India. Electronic address: 
alakkrburagohain@gmail.com.

Ligand and structure-based pharmacophore models were used to identify the 
important chemical features of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitors. A 
training set of 16 known structurally diverse compounds with a wide range of 
inhibitory activity against BChE was used to develop a quantitative ligand-based 
pharmacophore (Hypo1) model to identify novel BChE inhibitors in virtual 
screening databases. A structure-based pharmacophore hypothesis (Phar1) was also 
developed with the ligand-binding site of BChE in consideration. Further, the 
models were validated using test set, Fisher's Randomization and Leave-one-out 
validation methods. Well-validated pharmacophore hypotheses were further used as 
3D queries in virtual screening and 430 compounds were finally selected for 
molecular docking analysis. Subsequently, ADMET, DFT and chemical similarity 
search were employed to narrow down on seven compounds as potential drug 
candidates. Analogues of the best hit were further developed through a 
bioisosterism-guided approach to further generate a library of potential BChE 
inhibitors.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.076
PMID: 27903422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 29;6:22322. doi: 10.1038/srep22322.

Unexpected Reaction Pathway for butyrylcholinesterase-catalyzed inactivation of 
"hunger hormone" ghrelin.

Yao J(1)(2), Yuan Y(1)(2), Zheng F(1)(2), Zhan CG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Modeling and Biopharmaceutical Center and College of Pharmacy, 
University of Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Kentucky, 789 South Limestone Street, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.

Extensive computational modeling and simulations have been carried out, in the 
present study, to uncover the fundamental reaction pathway for 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE)-catalyzed hydrolysis of ghrelin, demonstrating that 
the acylation process of BChE-catalyzed hydrolysis of ghrelin follows an 
unprecedented single-step reaction pathway and the single-step acylation process 
is rate-determining. The free energy barrier (18.8 kcal/mol) calculated for the 
rate-determining step is reasonably close to the experimentally-derived free 
energy barrier (~19.4 kcal/mol), suggesting that the obtained mechanistic 
insights are reasonable. The single-step reaction pathway for the acylation is 
remarkably different from the well-known two-step acylation reaction pathway for 
numerous ester hydrolysis reactions catalyzed by a serine esterase. This is the 
first time demonstrating that a single-step reaction pathway is possible for an 
ester hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by a serine esterase and, therefore, one no 
longer can simply assume that the acylation process must follow the well-known 
two-step reaction pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22322
PMCID: PMC4770301
PMID: 26922910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. PLoS One. 2017 Nov 30;12(11):e0187994. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0187994. 
eCollection 2017.

Structural analysis of human glycoprotein butyrylcholinesterase using atomistic 
molecular dynamics: The importance of glycosylation site ASN241.

Bernardi A(1), Kirschner KN(2), Faller R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California-Davis, Davis, 
California, United States of America.
(2)Bonn-Rhein-Sieg University of Applied Sciences, Sankt Augustin, Germany.

Human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is a glycoprotein capable of bioscavenging 
toxic compounds such as organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents. For commercial 
production of BChE, it is practical to synthesize BChE in non-human expression 
systems, such as plants or animals. However, the glycosylation profile in these 
systems is significantly different from the human glycosylation profile, which 
could result in changes in BChE's structure and function. From our 
investigation, we found that the glycan attached to ASN241 is both structurally 
and functionally important due to its close proximity to the BChE 
tetramerization domain and the active site gorge. To investigate the effects of 
populating glycosylation site ASN241, monomeric human BChE glycoforms were 
simulated with and without site ASN241 glycosylated. Our simulations indicate 
that the structure and function of human BChE are significantly affected by the 
absence of glycan 241.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0187994
PMCID: PMC5708630
PMID: 29190644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


94. FEBS J. 2012 Aug;279(16):2905-16. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08672.x. Epub 
2012 Jul 12.

Human butyrylcholinesterase produced in insect cells: huprine-based affinity 
purification and crystal structure.

Brazzolotto X(1), Wandhammer M, Ronco C, Trovaslet M, Jean L, Lockridge O, 
Renard PY, Nachon F.

Author information:
(1)Département de Toxicologie, Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, La 
Tronche, France. xavier@brazzolotto.net

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is a serine hydrolase that is present in all 
mammalian tissues. It can accommodate larger substrates or inhibitors than 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE), the enzyme responsible for hydrolysis of the 
neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central nervous system and neuromuscular 
junctions. AChE is the specific target of organophosphorous pesticides and 
warfare nerve agents, and BChE is a stoichiometric bioscavenger. Conversion of 
BChE into a catalytic bioscavenger by rational design or designing reactivators 
specific to BChE required structural data obtained using a recombinant 
low-glycosylated human BChE expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. This 
expression system yields ≈ 1 mg of pure enzyme per litre of cell culture. Here, 
we report an improved expression system using insect cells with a fourfold 
higher yield for truncated human BChE with all glycosylation sites present. We 
developed a fast purification protocol for the recombinant protein using 
huprine-based affinity chromatography, which is superior to the classical 
procainamide-based affinity. The purified BChE crystallized under different 
conditions and space group than the recombinant low-glycosylated protein 
produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The crystals diffracted to 2.5 Å. The 
overall monomer structure is similar to the low-glycosylated structure except 
for the presence of the additional glycans. Remarkably, the carboxylic acid 
molecule systematically bound to the catalytic serine in the low-glycosylated 
structure is also present in this new structure, despite the different 
expression system, purification protocol and crystallization conditions.

© 2012 The Authors Journal compilation © 2012 FEBS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08672.x
PMID: 22726956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Anal Chem. 2017 Feb 7;89(3):1955-1964. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b04441. Epub 
2017 Jan 24.

High-Confidence Qualitative Identification of Organophosphorus Nerve Agent 
Adducts to Human Butyrylcholinesterase.

Mathews TP(1), Carter MD(2), Johnson D(3), Isenberg SL(2), Graham LA(1), Thomas 
JD(2), Johnson RC(2).

Author information:
(1)Battelle at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , Atlanta, Georgia 
30341, United States.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center for 
Environmental Health, Division of Laboratory Sciences, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, 
United States.
(3)Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education Fellow at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention , Atlanta, Georgia 30341, United States.

In this study, a data-dependent, high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry 
(ddHRMS/MS) method capable of detecting all organophosphorus nerve agent (OPNA) 
adducts to human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) was developed. After an exposure 
event, immunoprecipitation from blood with a BChE-specific antibody and 
digestion with pepsin produces a nine amino acid peptide containing the OPNA 
adduct. Signature product ions of this peptic BChE nonapeptide (FGES*AGAAS) 
offer a route to broadly screen for OPNA exposure. Taking this approach on an 
HRMS instrument identifies biomarkers, including unknowns, with high mass 
accuracy. Using a set of pooled human sera exposed to OPNAs as quality control 
(QC) materials, the developed method successfully identified precursor ions with 
<1 ppm and tied them to signature product ions with <5 ppm deviation from their 
chemical formulas. This high mass accuracy data from precursor and product ions, 
collected over 23 independent immunoprecipitation preparations, established 
method operating limits. QC data and experiments with 14 synthetic reference 
peptides indicated that reliable qualitative identification of biomarkers was 
possible for analytes >15 ng/mL. The developed method was applied to a 
convenience set of 96 unexposed serum samples and a blinded set of 80 samples 
treated with OPNAs. OPNA biomarkers were not observed in convenience set samples 
and no false positive or negative identifications were observed in blinded 
samples. All biomarkers in the blinded serum set >15 ng/mL were correctly 
identified. For the first time, this study reports a ddHRMS/MS method capable of 
complementing existing quantitative methodologies and suitable for identifying 
exposure to unknown organophosphorus agents.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b04441
PMCID: PMC5713887
PMID: 28208252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosure The authors 
declare no competing financial interest


96. Bioorg Med Chem. 2018 Jul 23;26(12):3076-3095. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2018.02.049. 
Epub 2018 Mar 1.

Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of benzofuran appended 
benzothiazepine derivatives as inhibitors of butyrylcholinesterase and 
antimicrobial agents.

Mostofi M(1), Mohammadi Ziarani G(2), Lashgari N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Alzahra University, Vanak Square, P.O. Box 
1993891176, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Alzahra University, Vanak Square, P.O. Box 
1993891176, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: gmohammadi@alzahra.ac.ir.

A series of bezofuran appended 1,5-benzothiazepine compounds 7a-v was designed, 
synthesized and evaluated as cholinesterase inhibitors. The biological assay 
experiments showed that most of the compounds displayed a clearly selective 
inhibition for butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), while a weak or no effect towards 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was detected. All analogs exhibited varied BChE 
inhibitory activity with IC50 value ranging between 1.0 ± 0.01 and 72 ± 2.8 μM 
when compared with the standard donepezil (IC50, 2.63 ± 0.28 μM). Among the 
synthesized derivatives, compounds 7l, 7m and 7k exhibited the highest BChE 
inhibition with IC50 values of 1.0, 1.0 and 1.8 μM, respectively. The results 
from a Lineweaver-Burk plot indicated a mixed-type inhibition for compound 7l 
with BChE. In addition, docking studies confirmed the results obtained through 
in vitro experiments and showed that most potent compounds bind to both the 
catalytic anionic site (CAS) and peripheral anionic site (PAS) of BChE active 
site. The synthesized compounds were also evaluated for their in vitro 
antibacterial and antifungal activities. The results indicated that the 
compounds possessed a broad spectrum of activity against the tested 
microorganisms and showed high activity against both gram positive and gram 
negative bacteria and fungi.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2018.02.049
PMID: 29866481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2015 Dec 1;224:61-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2015.05.017. Epub 
2015 Jun 12.

Pure human butyrylcholinesterase hydrolyzes octanoyl ghrelin to desacyl ghrelin.

Schopfer LM(1), Lockridge O(2), Brimijoin S(3).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(2)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.
(3)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: brimijoin@mayo.edu.

The ghrelin hormone is a 28 amino acid peptide esterified on serine 3 with 
octanoic acid. Ghrelin is inactivated by hydrolysis of the ester bond. Previous 
studies have relied on inhibitors to identify human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) 
as the hydrolase in human plasma that converts ghrelin to desacyl ghrelin. The 
reaction of BChE with ghrelin is unusual because the rate of hydrolysis is very 
slow and the substrate is ten times larger than standard BChE substrates. These 
unusual features prompted us to re-examine the reaction, using human BChE 
preparations that were more than 98% pure. Conversion of ghrelin to desacyl 
ghrelin was monitored by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry. It was found that 5 
different preparations of pure human BChE all hydrolyzed ghrelin, including BChE 
purified from human plasma, from Cohn fraction IV-4, BChE immunopurified by 
binding to monoclonals mAb2 and B2 18-5, and recombinant human BChE purified 
from culture medium. We reasoned that it was unlikely that a common contaminant 
that could be responsible for ghrelin hydrolysis would appear in all of these 
preparations. km was <1 μM, and kcat was ~1.4 min(-1). A Michaelis-Menten 
analysis employing these kinetic values together with serum concentrations of 
ghrelin and BChE demonstrated that BChE could hydrolyze all of the ghrelin in 
serum in ~1 h. It was concluded that BChE is physiologically relevant for the 
hydrolysis of ghrelin.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2015.05.017
PMID: 26073531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Chem Biol Interact. 2016 Nov 25;259(Pt B):63-69. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2016.02.007. 
Epub 2016 Feb 11.

Origin of polyproline-rich peptides in human butyrylcholinesterase tetramers.

Peng H(1), Schopfer LM(2), Lockridge O(3).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: hong.peng@unmc.edu.
(2)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: lmschopf@unmc.edu.
(3)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 
68198-5950, USA. Electronic address: olockrid@unmc.edu.

The human butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) tetramer is composed of 4 identical 
subunits and a noncovalently bound polyproline-rich peptide. In a previous 
report we identified lamellipodin as the source of the polyproline-rich peptides 
in HuBChE tetramers purified from plasma. Our current goal was to identify 
proteins in addition to lamellipodin that donate polyproline-rich peptides to 
plasma HuBChE tetramers. Peptides were released from 1 mg of pure plasma-derived 
HuBChE tetramers by boiling. Mass spectrometry identified 74 polyproline-rich 
peptides. MALDI-TOF mass spectra and spectral counting of the LC-MS/MS data 
supported the conclusion that lamellipodin accounted for 70% of the 
polyproline-rich peptides. Additional precursor proteins were matched through 
BLASTp searches, suggesting but not proving, that 20 proteins including 
UDP-N-acetyl glucosamine transferase ALG13 homolog, leiomodin 2, and zinc finger 
homeobox protein 2 are sources of polyproline-rich peptides found in HuBChE 
tetramers. Eighteen polyproline-rich peptides had no match in the human protein 
database. In conclusion, HuBChE assembles into tetramers through interaction of 
its C-terminal domain with polyproline peptides derived from a variety of 
proteins.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2016.02.007
PMID: 26876904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Chem Biol Interact. 2008 Sep 25;175(1-3):88-91. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2008.03.009. 
Epub 2008 Mar 22.

The butyrylcholinesterase knockout mouse is obese on a high-fat diet.

Li B(1), Duysen EG, Lockridge O.

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 986805 Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-6805, USA. binli@unmc.edu

Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inactivates the appetite stimulating hormone 
octanoyl-ghrelin. The hypothesis was tested that BChE-/- mice would have 
abnormally high body weight and high levels of octanoyl-ghrelin. It was found 
that BChE-/- mice fed a standard 5% fat diet had normal body weight. However, 
BChE-/- mice fed a diet containing 11% fat became obese. Their obesity was not 
explained by increased levels of octanoyl-ghrelin, or by increased caloric 
intake, or by decreased exercise. Instead, a role for BChE in fat utilization 
was suggested.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2008.03.009
PMID: 18452903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Chem Biol Interact. 2013 Mar 25;203(1):348-53. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2012.10.007. 
Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Monoclonal antibodies to mouse butyrylcholinesterase.

Mrvova K(1), Obzerova L, Girard E, Krejci E, Hrabovska A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Dept of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Comenius 
University, Bratislava, Slovakia.

Our immunization strategy introduced recombinant mouse butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE) to naïve BChE knockout mice. An extraordinarily strong immune reaction 
gave rise to a whole spectrum of antibodies with different properties. Two 
selective and highly efficient monoclonal anti-mouse BChE antibodies 4H1 (IgG1) 
and 4 C9 (IgG2a), with Kd values in the nanomolar range were generated. ELISA 
detected BChE in as little as 20-50 nl of mouse plasma using 2 μg (4H1) or 4 μg 
(4C9). Both antibodies cross-reacted with BChE in dog plasma but only 4 H1 
reacted with rat BChE, suggesting that the antibodies are targeted towards 
different epitopes. Surprisingly, neither recognized human BChE. The anti-mouse 
BChE antibodies were used in immunohistochemistry analysis of mouse muscle where 
they specifically stained the neuromuscular junction. The antibodies enable 
visualization of the BChE protein in the mouse tissue, thus complementing 
activity assays. They can be used to study a long-lasting question about the 
existence of mixed acetylcholinesterase/BChE oligomers in mouse tissues. 
Moreover, monoclonal anti-mouse BChE antibodies can provide a simple, fast and 
efficient way to purify mouse BChE from small amounts of starting material by 
using a single-step immunomagnetic bead-based protocol.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2012.10.007
PMID: 23099085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]